





PEOCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



t^l 



.4' 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1863. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



PRINTED FOR THE ACADEMY, 

 18G3. 




I 



^ 3. 




^yj 



PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



18 6 2. 



January 7th. 

 Dr. Leidy in the Chair. 



Fourteen members present. 

 A paper was presented for publication entitled 

 Description of new Cretaceous Fossils from Nebraska Territory, etc., 

 by F. B. Meek and F. V. Hayden, M. D. 



Mr. Cope stated that he had examined the dentition of the Siamese river 

 snake, Herpeton tentaculatum, respecting which some difference of 

 opinion existed among European herpetologists. He had found the posterior 

 maxillary teeth to be grooved, in accordance with the statement of M. Dumeril. 



Regarding another point of difference between naturalists — the native coun- 

 try of the Gerarda prevostiana ( Campijlodon Dum.) — Mr. Cope adhered 

 to the statement in the Erpetologie Generale, that it inhabited the Philippine 

 Islands. Others had stated that the form was West Indian. 



Dr. Giinther had corrected the above-mentioned work in its statement that 

 the Rhabdosoma (Catostoma) 1 i n e a t u m was West African. Mr. Cope was 

 able to confirm the Doctor's opinion through specimens obtained in Trinidad, 

 and lent him by Prof. Gill. 



January 14iA. 

 Vice President Vaux in the Chair. 



Twenty members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



Notes on some American Ash Trees. (Fraxinus), with descriptions 

 of new species, by S. B. Buckley. 



On the Leucosomi inhabiting the basin of the Delaware, by C. C. 

 Abbott. 

 1862.] 1 




'Z PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



January 21s^ 

 Vice President Bridges in the Chair. 



Twenty-nine members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



Descriptions of new Plants from Texas, by S. B. Buckley. 



On the uniformity of relative characters between allied species of 

 European and American Trees, by Thomas Meehan. 



Notice of a new species of Heniilepidotus, by Theo. Gill. 



On the subfamily of Argentininaj, by Theo. Gill. 



Notes on the Sciaenoids of California, by Theo. Gill. 



Appendix to the Synopsis of the subfamily of Percinge, by Theo. Gill. 



Mr. Cassin gave an account of a flock of crows, lost in a fog whilst 

 passing over the city early on Sunday morning, the 12th inst. 



Mr. Haldeman stated that he had frequently noticed the bald eagle 

 dive for fish in the Susquehanna, when it could not procure its food by 

 robbing the fish hawk. 



Dr. Rogers made some remarks on the influence upon the health of 

 communities from the thawing of snow in the streets by means of salt, 

 exposing what he considered to be the fallacies of the common preju- 

 dices on the subject. 



January 2Sth. 



Vice President Bridges in the Chair. 



Twenty-four members present. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers ■were 

 ordered to be published in the Proceedings : 



Notes on some of the American Ash Trees, (Fraxinus,) with descriptions of new 



Species. 



BY S. B. BUCKLEY. 



The great accuracy of the plates in Michaux's Sylva is admitted by all "who 

 hav« seen both them and the trees whose portions are there represented. 

 That the text contains a few errors is well known, but the figures are true to 

 nature and correctly represent the object described. The wonder is that a 

 work published at that early day, in the infancy of botany, should so well and 

 truthfully describe our forest trees. 



It is supposed by some botanists that the fruit in the plate of Fraxinus 

 americanais that of the green ash, (F. vi r i d i s , ) or that the fruit of these 

 two species of asb has been substituted the one for the other by mistake. The 

 original proof-plates of the Sylva are in the Library of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences at Philadelphia, in which the figure of the white ash difiers little 

 from the one in the last edition. Had there been an error, it would have 

 probably been corrected, as several editions of the Sylva passed under the eye 

 of Michaux ; nor does the fruit of the white ash differ from his description of 

 that species. In his account of the green ash, he states that " its seeds are only 

 half ay; large as those ofihe white ash. but similar in form ; and also, in describing 

 F. p u b e s c e n 9 , he remarks that ' ' its seeds are shorter than those o/" F. a m e- 

 r i c a n a , bnt similar inform and arrangement.''^ These Statements in the text 

 .agree perfectly with his pictures of these species. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA, 6 



The true Fraxinus americana (Linn.) is common in the public grounds 

 and on the sidewalks of some of the streets of Philadelphia. It also grows 

 along the Delaware and Schuylkill rivers in the vicinity of the city. Speci- 

 mens of it are in the herbarium of the Academy of Natural Sciences which 

 were collected in the vicinity of Boston, Mass., by Mr. Pickering, from whence 

 it extends as far south as Louisiana, the author having gathered specimens 

 of it in the woods two or three miles west of the Mississippi River, opposite 

 New Orleans. In the year 1790, William Bartram assisted in making out a 

 list of trees to be planted in Independence Square, Philadelphia. (See Penn- 

 sylvania Archives, vol. ii. p. 674.) Bartram's fondness for American trees 

 led him to select for that purpose a great variety of indigenous species, so 

 that the native trees of Pennsylvania are now well represented in this cele- 

 brated Square, among which the Fraxinus americana is conspicuous. 



Cotemporaries of Bartram, and at that time residing in the city of Phila- 

 delphia, were Zaccheus Collins and Dr. Kuhn, botanists, both pupils of Lin- 

 naeus, to whom they sent specimens, from which he described many American 

 plants, including probably the F. americana. Fraxinus pnbescens 

 (Walt.) also grows in the neighborhood of Philadelphia, and, as Michaux 

 observes, there is little difference in external appearance between it and the 

 white ash. Any one who will compare the plates of these two species in the 

 Sylva will see the striking resemblance in the fruit of each, but that of the 

 red ash is shorter and more pointed. Its petioles are also more or less 

 grooved, and the under side of its leaves and the petioles and young branches 

 are much more pubescent than those of F. americana. Still the two are 

 often considered as the same species by casual observers. It grows in most 

 of the Southern States, and extends as far west as Minnesota. 



Fraxinus e pi p t e r a (Mich.) was regarded by the younger Michaux and 

 Nuttall the same as F. americana. It has been thus considered by the 

 best American botanists. Had it been different, it would have been included 

 in the Sylva by the younger Michaux. Specimens labelled by some of the old 

 botanists F. epiptera (Mich.) are now in the herbarium of the Academy, 

 and they differ not in the least from the F. americana. 



De CandoUe makes F. viridis (Mich.) a synonym of F. j u g 1 a n d i f o 1 i a. 

 Specimens of the latter in the herbarium of the Academy agree well with, 

 those of the green ash, to which they have been referred by Nuttall and other 

 botanists. It is nearly certain that De CandoUe is right, because he has been 

 able to see both Lamarck's and Michaux's specimens. The green ash grows 

 occasionally along streams from Pennsylvania to Texas. I have frequently 

 seen it on the Alabama River ; also on the Red River in Louisiana, below 

 Alexandria. It is quite common in Southern Texas, where a form of it col- 

 lected by Berlandier has been described by De CandoUe as F. Berlandierii, 

 according to Torrey and Gray. Personal observation in Texas with one of 

 Berlandier's specimens, kindly sent to me by Dr. Gray, convince me of the 

 truth of their opinion. 



Muhlenberg's herbarium, at the rooms of the American Philosophical 

 Society in Philadelphia, contains a specimen of the green ash which has the 

 serrated leaves and both sides of the same shade of green, which led Dr. 

 Muhlenberg to call it Fraxinus concolor, as related by JMichaux, who also 

 states that it grows abundantly along the Susquehanna, near where Dr. Muh- 

 lenberg resided. Hence there is no difficulty in determining the true F. 

 viridis, Mich., specimens of which in the herbarium of the Academy differ 

 little from his figure of it in the Sylva. Therefore the reader may rest assured 

 that the plates and descriptions in Michaux's Sylva of Fraxinus americana, 

 F. pubescens and F. viridis are correct. 



Since the time of Michaux, the American forest trees have rarely been care- 

 fully studied by botanists, because they are apt to look on the ground for new 

 plants and flowers, and not iip at the trees. Even Nuttall, in his travels, gave 



1862.] 




* PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



them little attention ; nor did he when journeying contemplate a Supplemen 

 to Michanx's Sylva, which was done at the request of Philadelphia publishers 

 after he had ceased his American wanderings. Hence the volumes of Nuttall 

 have neither the freshness and life of description, nor that fidelity to nature in 

 the plates, which are so remarkable in those of Michaux, who travelled for 

 the especial purpose of publishing a work on the trees of America. 



The closet botanist cannot master the botany of trees as well as that of 

 herbaceous plants, because of the latter he often has the whole, but of the 

 tree he can at most possess in his herbarium but a mere fragment, whicli is 

 far from showing all its important characteristics. He who has made trees 

 his esppcial study can distinguish the different species even in midwinter, 

 when many of them are destitute of leaves. I make these remarks to show 

 why the two next described species of Fraxinus, which are prevalent both at 

 the North and at the South, have been generally referred to one or the other 

 of the three species before mentioned. 



Fraxinus albicans, S. nov. — Foliolis 2 — 4-jugis sessilibns, ant breviter 

 petiolatis, ovatis, aut ovato-lanceolatis, integris vel serratis, subtus glaucis, 

 tarde iatrinq\ie glabris, paniculis laxe terminalibus seu axillaribus ; samaris 

 linearibus 12 — 18 lin. Ion. emarginatis, basi snbteretibus. 



It is found from New England to Texas, being the largest of the American 

 ash trees, sometimes attaining a diameter of between four and five feet. Its 

 bark is furrowed and of a light grey ; hence it is called the white ash in many 

 places. Its petioles are grooved, and its buds are destitute of the red velvety 

 pubescence peculiar toF. americana, I have not seen it in the vicinity 

 of Philadelphia, nor is there any specimen of it collected in this neighborhood 

 in the herbarium of the Academy. In the herbarium of Darlington, at West 

 Chester, I saw specimens of it labelled F. americana, and it is probably 

 thus called by other American botanists. The West Chester collection had 

 no specimens ofF. americana orF. pubescens. 



Both F. americana and F. albicans being called white ash throughout 

 the country have caused them to be confounded, especially where, as is often 

 the case, they do not both grow in the same locality ; but the fruit of the 

 latter is only about half the size of the former, which, with the other distinc- 

 tions enumerated, show that they are very different species. 



Fraxinus oblongocarpa, s. nov,— Foliolis 2 — 4-jugis lanceolatis, vel 

 ovato-lanceolatis, acuminatis, basi cuneatis, integerimis, vel parce serratis, 

 utrinque viridis, junioribus subtus parum pubescentibus, breve petiolatis ; 

 samaris lineari-oblongis, obtusis vel emarginatis, basi subteretibus, et anguste 

 alatis. 



A small tree, thirty or forty feet high, growing along water courses from 

 Pennsylvania to Texas. Its young branches and the footstalks of the leaves 

 covered with a velvety pubescence. Fruit 18 lines to 2 inches in length and 

 2 — 3 lines wide, the terete part short in proportion and somewhat winged, 

 leaflets 3 — 4 inches long. This is the Fraxinus pubescens described in 

 Darlington's Flora Cestrica, but not of Michaux. It differs from F. pu b e r- 

 c e n s in its terete petioles ; its leaves are of a deeper green beneath, and both 

 its leaves and branches are less pubescent when mature. Its samara are 

 longer and nearly one-third less in width, nor are they mncronate, or as sharp 

 pointed asinF. pubescens. 



For those who have not Michaux's Sylva, the following brief descriptions of 

 the white and red ash are given. 



Fraxinus americanus (Linn.) — Foliolis 3 — 4-5ugis, breviter petiolatis, 

 ovato-lanceolatis, integerrimis, acutis, subtus glancis, petiolis teretibus ; gem- 

 mis rufo-velutinis ; samaris linear! oblongis obtusis vel acutis, basi teretibus, 

 subacutis. 



Fruit 2 — 3 inches long, but generally about 2J inches in length and 4 — 5 

 lines broad in the widest part ; common petiole terete. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. O 



Fraxinus pubescens (Walt.) — Foliolis lanceolato-ovatis, subserratis seu 

 integerimis, acuminatis, subtus pubescentibus, petiolis junioribus ramisque 

 tomentosis ; samaris anguste lanceolatis, obtusis, mucronatis vel acutis, basi 

 teretibus. 



Fruit 1^ — 2 incbes long and 4 — 5 lines in width at the widest part ; common 

 petiole channelled above near the base. 



Fraxinus nigreseens, s. nov. — Foliolis 2— 4-jugi3, lanceolatis vel ovato- 

 lanceolatis, sessilibus, aut breve petiolatis, utrinqae acutis vel abrupte acutis 

 basi longe teretibus, acutis. 



This is a common tree in the vicinity of Austin and in Middle Texas along 

 water courses. It is generally small, but is sometimes 2 — 3 feet in diameter 

 and 40 — 60 feet high The bark of the stem and limbs is dark grey and 

 furrowed ; hence in many parts of the State it is called the " black ash." Its 

 leaves are of a deep glossy green above and a paler green beneath, and in 

 young leaves the midrib and veins are sparingly pubescent. The terminal 

 leaflet is often much the largest, being sometimes 4 — 5 inches in diameter. 

 Such specimens I obtained in Navarro County, and also on Caney River in 

 Matagorda County. Its leaves are rarely if ever serrated. The samara are 

 12 — 15 lines long and 4 — 5 lines broad in the widest part ; about one-half of the 

 entire length is broadly winged, from whence the wings are gradually nar- 

 rowed to the terete part. In midsummer the top of the fruit, extending nearly 

 down half of the wings, is often curved. The common petiole is channelled 

 above near its junction with the stem. 



Fraxinus tri-alata, s. nov. — Foliolis 2 — 3-jugis, lanceolatis, vel obovatis, 

 supra glabris, subtus parum pubescentibus, ad venas et parce glaucescen- 

 tibus ; samaris 2 — 3 alatis, obovatis, 6 — 8 lin. Ion. obtusis, emarginatis, vel 

 subacutis, basi anguste alatis, acutis. 



A shrub or small tree, 15 — 20 feet high, growing on the banks of the Ata- 

 cosa River in Western Texas. Samara in loose axillary or terminal panicles, 

 about one-half of them 3-winged, and 2—3 lines broad in the widest portion ; 

 not terete below ; the wings being attenuated as far as the pedicels ; leaflets 

 12 — 18 lines long and 6 — 12 broad, branches smooth, and of a light grey color. 



Fraxinus pauciflora Nutt. has been referred by Dr. Chapman, in his 

 Flora of the Southern States, toF. platycarpa. Specimens of the former, 

 collected by Dr. Baldwin, are in the herbarium of the Academy, and they 

 differ from F. platycarpa in having the petioles grooved, leaves scarce 

 half as large and of one-third less width, and much more acutely serrated, 

 and the fruit of the two is widely different. I have not seen a tree of the F. 

 pauciflora, but I well know F. platycarpa, which extends as far 

 southwest as the Sabine River in Eastern Texas ; and it certainly is very dis- 

 tinct from the Florida ash described by Nuttall, -nor have I ever seen it 

 assume any such form. 



Descriptions of NEW PLANTS from Texas.— No. 2. 

 BY S. B. BUCKLEY. 



POLEMOXIACE^. 



Phlox macrantha, s. n. — Pubescens, humilis 3 — 6 policaris, ramosa, 

 foliis lanceolatis, utrinque subacutis, alternis vel oppositis, calycibus parce 

 canescenti pilosis, segmentis lineari-elongatis, acuminatis, corollae tubo gla- 

 bro, laciniis lato-obovatis, apice subacutis, capsula elipsoidea glabra, semiua 

 alata. 



Prairies north of Austin. March. 



Stems diffusely branching from the root ; leaves numerous, lanceolate and 



1862.] 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



attenuate at each end, sparingly pubescent ; flowers large, purple, disk of 

 the corolla f to 1^ inches in diameter. 



COXVOLVULACE^. 



Conrolvulus (Ipomea) caddoensis, s. n. — Suffruticosus glaber, caule 

 tereti, ramosissiino erecto, foliis lineari-lanceolatis breve petiolatis apice acn- 

 minatis seu mucronatis basi attenuatis, pedunculis axillaribus unifloris, vel 

 multifloris folio brevioribus, sepalis ovatis, obtusis, corolla rosea infundibuli- 

 formis 2 — 3-policaris, stylus elongatus inclusis filamentis duplo longiore, 

 stigma bilobatum, capsula ovato-ellipsoidea, 2 — 4-sperma, semina ovoidea testa 

 conica pubescente. 



Northwestern Texas, near Caddo Peak. June. 



A stout plant, 2 — 3 feet high, apparently an annual; leaves 2 — 3 inches 

 long and 2—4 lines wide, tipped with a setaceous or mucronate point ; peti- 

 ©les 3 — 4 lines long ; peduncles 4 lines to 2 inches in length. 



SOLAXACE^. 



Solannm (Cryptocarpum) Sabeanum, s. n. — Herbaceum, ramis teretibus, 

 aculeatis, fuscis, glanduloso-pilosis, foliis profunde pinnato-lobatis, segmentis 

 ovatis, repando dentatis, dentibus mucronatis, petiolis et venis aculeatis, 

 aculeis stramineis, glabris, rectis insequalibas, racemis subterminalibns, 5 — 9- 

 floris, corolla alba calyce fere duplo longiore, filamenta ^ lin. longa, antherje 

 lineari-oblongse 6 lin. longse, calycibus aculeatis baccam includeutibus. 



San Saba County. 



Stem 1 — 2 feet high, with few branches ; spines 2 — S lines long and irregu- 

 larly placed ; leaves, including the petioles, 4—9 inches in length, lower seg- 

 ments divided to the midrib and lobed, or with large teeth ; sinuses of the 

 upper lobes extend about midway to the midrib, aculea of the leaves few ; 

 petioles and veins glandular pubescent ; calyx inclosing the fruit increases 

 after the fall of the petals, and is about ^ covered with aculea. 



Solanum (Lasiocarpa) Linsecumii, s. n. — Annuum, caule erecto, tereti, 



4 — 6 policari ramoso, pubescente, foliis oblongo-ovatis, vel lanceolatis, basi 

 attenuatis, breriter petiolatis, apice acutis, integris, utrinque puberulis 

 stipulis linearibus vel lanceolatis, floribus axillaribus, pedunculis solitariis 

 seu geminis, hirsutis, tarde refractis. calycibus campanulatis, hirsutissimis, 

 5-fidis, laciniis acutis, floribus campanulatis, coroUae 5-Mae segmentis acutis, 

 pubescentibus, autheris inclusis cordato-oblongis filamentis brevissimis stylo 

 brevioribus. bacca 4 lin. diam. hirsuta. 



Llano County, June. 



Leaves 1 — 2 inches long ; peduncles 4 — 12 lines in length ; flowers 3 — i lines 

 in diameter. 



Physalis Sabeana, s. n. — Annua, prostrata, ramosissima, glabra, foliis 

 petiolatis, lanceolato-ovatis, basi attenuatis apice subacutis, margine subre- 

 pando dentatis, dentilus lato-obtusis, corolla rotato-infundibuliforme ooerulea 

 calyce longiore, pedunculis axillaribus, filiformibus geminis, calycibus bac- 

 ciferis, inflatis, ovatis, subangulatis, acutis. 



San Saba County. June. 



Branches very numerous, trailing 6 — 12 inches ; leaves about an inch long 

 and 4 — 8 lines wide, margins entire, or with 1 — 2 obtuse teeth on each side ; 

 petioles H — 12 lines long; peduncles in pairs, 4 — S lines in length; fruit glo- 

 bose, smooth, 3 — 4 lines in diameter. 



Nicotiana glandu losa, s. n. — Pubescente-glandulosa, caule herbaceo, 

 simplici vel parum ramoso 6 — 10-policari, foliis caulinis lato-spathulatis vel 

 oblongis, obtusis, sessilibus vel subamplexicaulibus, radicalibus oblongo- 

 obovatis breviter petiolatis ; floribus terminalibus, breve pedicellatis, coroUae 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7. 



tubo subcylindrico apice parce inflato calyce fere duplo longioie, calyce pro- 

 funde 5-fido, laciniis linearibus, sabaciitis. 



Burnet County. April. 



Flowers yellowish white, 6 — 8 lines long. 



GENTIANACEiE. 



Erythraea calycosa, s. n. — Annua, caule erecto tetragono ramose 6 — 10- 

 policari, foliis acutis, inferioribus lanceolato-ovatis, calycibus 5-partitis, seg- 

 mentis lineari subulatis, margine membranaceis, coroUse tubo longioribus, 

 corollse rosex segmentis oblongo-ovatis obtusis. 



North of Fort Mason. June. 



Leaves 8—12 lines long ; segments of the calyx 6 — 8 lines in length ; 

 corolla subcampanulate, the top of the tube dilated and ribbed, filaments 

 exserted, but not exceeding the segments of the corolla, which are 6 — 8 lines 

 long. 



Sabbatia formbsa, s. n. — Caule tetragono erecto 8 — 12-policari, dicho- 

 tomo-ramoso, ramulis unifloris, foliis lanceolatis vel ovatis, inferioribus obtusis 

 aut submucronatis, calycis tubo breve obovato et carinato, laciniis linearibus, 

 corolla fere duplo brevioribus, coroUae 5-partitse roseae, segmentis obtusis vel 

 subacutis lato-obovatis, semina minutissima, testa verrucosa. 



Llano County. June. 



Stems leafy to the summit, the pairs of leaves being about an inch distant 

 from each other ; leaves 6 — 10 lines long. 



Oleace^. 



Forestiera a u t n m n a 1 i s, s. n. — Foliis minute serratis, ovatis subacutis 

 breviter petiolatis supra glabriusculis, subtus pubescentibus ramulis glabris, 

 junioribus pubescentibus, floret sestate, fructibus globosis cseruleis, matures - 

 centibus tarde in autumno. 



Eastern Texas and Western Louisiana. Flowers in August. 



Its fruit is very abundant, glomerated in the axiles of the leaves and ripen- 

 ing in October. Shrub 6—10 feet high ; petioles 3 — i lines long ; leaves 

 about 1^ inches in length, somewhat cnneate at the base. All the other 

 known species of the genus flower before the expansion of the leaves. 



Nyctaginage.e. 



Abronia speciosa, s. nov.— Caule erecto, vel subdecumbente, tereti, 

 foliis cordatis, obtusis basi insequalibus, petiolatis, pedunculis axillaribus, 

 vel terminalibus, longissimis, involucribus viridis 5 — (i-phyllis, segmentis 

 pubescentibus lanceolatis acutissimis. 



Near Fort Belknap. May. 



Plant 1 — 2 feet high, branching from the root ; stems bent at base, then 

 erect, with few divaricate branches ; peduncles 4 — 8 inches long ; heads of 

 flowers large and red ; petioles of the lower leaves 1 — 2 inches in length, and 

 of the upper leaves 4^6 lines long ; leaves 1 — 3 inches long, and 6 lines to 

 2 inches in width ; whole plant glandular puberul^nt, not viscid. 



Oxybaphus pauciflorus, s. n. — Glabriusculus ; caule erecto, simplici, 

 foliis oppositis, petiolatis, oblongo-ovatis acutis, vel subobtusis, floribus axil- 

 laribus breve pedunculatis involucri segmentis obovatis, abrupte acutis,. 

 pubescentibus, semina oblonga quadrangulata, rugosa. 



On the San Saba River, north of Fort Mason. 



Stem 1 — 2 feet high, rarely if ever branched, and leafy to the summit ; 

 leaves 2 — 3 inches long and 1 — 2 inches broad ; petioles 4 — 8 lines in length : 

 peduncles 3 — 6 lines long and 1 — 2 flowered. 



EtTPHORBIACE^. 



Phyllanthus (Lepidanthus) ellipticus, s. n. — Annuusglaber erecto divari- 

 1862] 




O PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



cato-ramosus, ramis gracilibus, foliis eliptico-oblongis, apice subacutis, breve 

 petiolatis, supra viridibus, subtus glancis, floribus axillaribus solitariis nume- 

 rosis, dioicis, 5-sepali5, longe pedicellatis, fructus ? 



Westeru Texas. June. 



Ij— 2 feet higb ; leaves 6 — 9 lines in length and 4 — 5 lines broad ; petioles 

 1 — 2 lines long ; pedicles 4 — 5 lines in length ; sepals oblong ovate. 



USTICACEiE. 



Morus microphylla, s. n. — Arbuscula 15 — 20 pedalis, foliis petiolatis ; 

 cordato-ovatis vel trilobatis, serratis, dentibus mucronatis, utrinque glabri- 

 usculis, venis et marginibus parce et minute ciliatis, stipulis parvis linearibus 

 membranaceis, caducis. 



Western Texas ; growing in clumps. 



Stems and branches smooth, with a light grey bark ; fruit ripe last of May ; 

 black and sour, with little juice and deep sinuses between the achenia, which 

 are little compressed ; styles divaricate and obtuse ; leaves generally entire, 

 and 1 — 1^ inches in length and 1 — 1^ inches wide ; the lobed leaves are about 

 2^ inches long, the middle lobe prolonged and acuminate. The preceding 

 characteristics are constant, and no person seeing this mulberry in its native 

 situations would call it a form of Morus rubra. 



LlLIACE^. 



Yucca longifolia, s. nov. — Caule erecto 6 — 8 pedali, foliis ensiformi- 

 lanceolatis, confertis, rigidis integris acuminatis pungentibus, inferioribus re- 

 flexis, paniculis magnis terminalibus ; floribus campanulatis, sepalis ovatia 

 acutis, bracteis ovato-lanceolatis acutis margine membranaceis, capsula ob- 

 longo-cylindracea utrinque obtusa. 



Western Texas. Flowers in March. 



Stems crowded with leaves to the summit, lower leaves reflexed, often, 

 when dead, with their points in the ground. Leaves 2.} — 3 feet in length, 

 with curved margins ; fruit 4 — 5 inches long, cylindrical and obtuse at each 

 end. 



Yucca constrict a, s. n. — Foliis lineari-lanceolatis margine filamentosis 

 acuminatis in apice caudicis confertissimis, caudex 12 — IS-pohcaris, scapus 

 4 — 6 pedalis, paniculis magnis, floribus numerosis longe pedunculatis, bracteis 

 ovatis acutis margine membranaceis, sepalis ovato-obloiigis, subobtusis, cap- 

 sula subcylindracea in medio constricta. 



Western Texas. June. 



Leaves crowded at the top of the caudex, which is from a foot to eighteen 

 inches in heigbt ; leaves 12 — 15 inches long and 4 — 6 lines broad. It difiers 

 from the Y. angustifolia of Pursh in its constricted capsule, shorter 

 leaves and longer caudex. Yucca angustifolia is common in Northern 

 Texas ; its caudex scarcely rises above the surface of the ground, and its 

 leaves are more than one-third longer than our species. The fruit of Yucca 

 rupicola of Scheele, is conical, tapering to a sharp point, near which there 

 is sometimes a slight constriction. The fruit of Y. constricta is nearly 

 obtuse at both ends, 1^ — 2| inches long and constricted in the middle. 



JCNOACE^. 



Juncus filipendulus, s. nov. — Culmo erecto, gracili, 6 — 12-policari 

 et 1 — 2-foliato, foliis planis numerosis ad radicem, rhizomate muto-fibrosa, an- 

 thela terminal!, fasciculis 6 — 12-floris, bracteis ovatis, lato-membranaceis, 

 acuminatis vel longe subulatis, perigonii phyllis 6, aequalibus lanceolatisve 

 ovatis, lato-membranaceis, subulatis, trigona obtusaque capsula longioribus, 

 stylo brevissimo, stigmatis 3, fuscis tortis pubescentibus. 



In the western part of Llano County, along streams in dense tufts, with 

 weak, single stems, terminated by 1—4 subhemispherical heads of flowers, 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. V 



which, when later with mature fruit, are of a light straw color ; seeds ovate, 

 with reddish brown points ; heads of flowers about 5 lines in diameter ; radi- 

 cal leaves 3 — 5 inches long. 



Juncus d if fu sis simus, s. n. — Culmo erecto 2 — 3 pedali, foliato, foliis 

 oblongo linearibus acutis, septis transversis inconspicuis, vaginis compressis 

 acutis 1 — 3-policaribus, anthela terminali decomposita et lato filamento-ramo- 

 sissima, fasciculis 5 — 7-floris, foliis floralibus ovatis membranaceis acutis, se- 

 palis sequalibus lineari-lanceolatis, acutis, margine membranaceis, capsula 

 oblonga trigona subacuta, perigonio fere duplo longiore, semina ovoidea 

 utrinque subobtusa. 



Northwestern Texas. 



Panicle widely diffused, some of its filiform branches being more than a 

 foot in length ; heads subhemispherical, yellowish brown and 1 — 2 inches 

 apart from each other. Whole plant weak and not rigid ; capsules 4 lines 

 longr, gradually attenuated to a blunt or subacute point, and nearly double 

 the length of the sepals ; seeds ovoid, tailless, subobtusa, yellowish brown, 

 with the ends dark brown. 



COMMELTNACE^. 



Tradescautia speciosa, s. nov. — Caule erecto simplici vel subramoso, 

 glabro, foliis ovatis vel ovato-lanceolatis, acutis margine ciliatis, subamplexi- 

 caulibus, radicalibus petiolatis, umbellis terminalibus, ad basin pilosis sessili- 

 bus, paucifloribus breve pedicellatis, sepalis lanceolatis subacutis margine 

 membranaceis, petalis lato-ovatis roseis. 



Corpus Christi. May. 



Plant 4 — 6 inches high, smooth, excepting the margins of the leaves, the 

 pedicels and the base of the calyx. Radical leaves, including the petioles, 

 3 — 4 inches long and 1 inch wide ; petioles 6 — 12 lines in length ; stem leaves 

 1 — 2 inches long and 1 inch broad ; the upper pair of leaves inclosing the 

 umbel about an inch long and nearly an inch in width, acute ; flowers ex- 

 panded 4 — (j lines in diameter, rose colored ; pedicels 1 — 3 lines in length. 



Cypebiace^. 



Cyperus retroflexus, n. s. — Rhizomate bulboso ; culmis erectis triquetis 

 IJ — 2^-pedalibus basi foliatis ; foliis 12— 15-policaribus margine et carina gla- 

 briusculis ; involucre 5 — 7-phyllo ; foliis 2 inferioribus umbella longioribus ; 

 umbella5 — 7-radiata ; radiis insequalibus, exterioribus 2 — 3-policaribus; spicu- 

 lis congestis tarde reflexis teretibus acuminatis 2 — 3-floris basi bracteatis ; brac- 

 teis ovatis albo-hyalinis obtusis ; squamis oblongo-obovatis vel lanceolatis acutis 

 lateralibus membranaceis ; carinis viridiscentibus ; caryopsi elongata trigona 

 3 lin. longa, breve apiculata glabra ; stylo 3-fido. 



Northern Texas. June. 



Spikes green ; scales 3 — 4, the lower pair unequal, one being about one- 

 third longer than the other, and clasping the middle of the spikelet, which 

 is commonly 2-seeded ; spikelets 3 — 4 lines long ; terminal scale long, acu- 

 minate. 



Cyperus ruficomus, n. s. — Culmis erectis triquetis 2 — 3-pedalibus basi 

 foliatis ; foliis culmo brevioribus ; umbella 5 — 9-radiata ; radiis injequalibus 

 1 — ■5-policaribus involuero 5 — 7-phyllo ; phyllis linearibus planis inaequalibus, 

 longioribus 7 — 9-policaribus ; spiculis 7 — 9 lin. longis, remotiusculis 20 — 30 : 

 inferioribus 2 — 3-congestis et pedicellatis circum 20-squamatis ; squamis ovatis 

 acutis marginibus albo-rufescentibus carinis viridiscentibus ; caryopsi lineari 

 trigona apice acuta. 



San Saba County. June. 



Spikelet subterete and little more than a line in diameter. The long leaves 

 of the involucre 3—4 lines wide. A linear setaceous leaf 5 — 6 lines long at 

 the base of three or four of the lower spikelets. Interior bracts none. 



1862.] 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Cyperus Heermannii, n. s. — Ciilmis erectis 2— S-pedalibus, trigonis ; 

 uinbella 11 — ISradiata; radiis insequalibus 2-iuterioribu3 sessilibiis ; longi- 

 oribus subc-equalibus 7 — 8-policaribus ; iuvolucro 9 — ISphyllo; phyllis in- 

 sequalibus, longioribus 9 — 12-policaribus ; radiis 15 — 17-stachyis, basi confertis 

 apice divergeutibus 15 — 25-floris ; squamis ovatis acutis lateralibus rufescen- 

 tibas margine albescentibus ; carinis viridiscentibus ; involucelli phyllis 

 numerosis linearibus, vel setaceis ; longioribus 1 — 2-policaribus ; aclienio ob- 

 tuso ellipsoideo et obtuso trigone stylo profunde trifido. 



California. Dr. Heermann. 



Spikelets densely aggregated in nearly the same plane, with numerous 

 linear or setaceous leaves interspersed. Often the heads of spikes are proli- 

 ferous, with a ray about an inch in length, crowned with spikelets. 



Chsetocyperus (Elseocharis) membranaceus, n. s. — Culmis filiformibus 

 erectis, csespitosis, 2 — 3-policaribus planis ; spica oblongo-ovata 4 — 12-squa- 

 mata, acuta imbricata ; squamis ovatis, acutis vel subobtusi lateralibus dense 

 albo hyalinis dorsis stramineis ; achenio lato-ovoideo nigro, subacute triangu- 

 lari et abrupte in tuberculum angustum erosum rostrato ; setis nullis. 



Llano County. Grows in small tufts. 



Spikes greyish white 3 — 4 lines long, achenia quite as broad as long, dull 

 black, not shining. A few of the scales are tinged on the back with brownish 

 red, but most of the backs are straw colored and not keeled ; the back of the 

 lower scale is green. 



Eleocharis c y 1 i n d r i c a, n. s. — Culmis planiusculis filiformibus 9 — 12 poli- 

 caribus ; spica cylindrica subacuta 4 — 7 lin. longa ; squamis ovatis vel ovato- 

 lanceolatis acutis inferioribus obtusis rufesceutibus ; margine albo-hyalinis 

 carinis stramineis ; achenio parvo ovoideo obtuse triangulari glabro tuberculo 

 magno subconico apiculato ; setis 3 — 6 caducis nucula brevioribus. 



Northern Texas. June. 



Spikes 1 — 2 lines in diameter. Stems below immersed in water. Nuts 

 pale yellow, small ; tubercle large in proportion, contracted at the base and 

 shortly apiculated. 



Eleocharis microformis, n. s. — Culmis setaceis csespitosis erectis 1 — 2- 

 policaribus, planiusculis ; spicis ovatis obtusis vel subacutis 10 — 12-squa- 

 matis ; squamis ovatis acutis vel subobtusis, rufescentibus ; carinis virides- 

 centibus ; achenio glabro nitido lato obovato pyriformi ; setis 6 nuculam 

 sequantibus ; tuberculo lato applanato breve apiculato. 



Northern Texas. June. 



Mature achenia black and shining, crowned with a broad white tubercle, 

 with a short point in the centre. Scales reddish brown, with green keels. 



Eleocharis acutisquamata, n. s. — Culmis striato-sulcatis erectis filifor- 

 mibus 10 — 15-policaribus ; spica oblongo-ovata acuta 15 — 40-squamata ; squa- 

 mis ovato-lanceolatis, acutis rufescentibus apice membranaceis ; achenio obo- 

 vato pyriformi et minute reticulato ; tuberculo breve conico apiculato ; setis 

 nullis ; spica 4 lin. longa. 



San Saba County. May and June. 



Rhizoma large and creeping ; achenia pale yellow, biconvex tubercles brown. 



On tlie TJniformity of Relative Characters between Allied Species of European 

 and American Trees. 



BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 

 To whatever principles the origin of species may be owing, the following 

 observations tend to show that their respective differences are the result of 

 one unvarying law. 



Noticing that European willows, oaks and other trees retained their green 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



11 



leaves in the autumn mucli longer than closely allied American species grow- 

 ing near them, and that this could not be owing to immediate climatic influ- 

 ences, as Gleditsckia triacantkos, Robinia pseudacacia, and other American 

 trees, with no European representatives, possessed the same characters, I was 

 led to believe it was rather the result of inherent specific peculiarities, which 

 farther investigation tended to confirm. 



It will be seen from the subjoined table that on any positive difference 

 being ascertained to exist between an American and a closely allied European 

 species, the relative diS"erences between all other closely allied species of the 

 same differing geographical distribution are of the same character and nature. 



For instance, the European Plane (Platanns orientalis) maybe distinguished 

 by a compactness of growth when compared with the diffuse habit of the 

 American species, and the same compactness and diffuseness will be found to 

 prevail in all the respective European and American species of other genera. 



The nut of the European chestnut (Castanea vesca) is characterized by large 

 size ; the American ( C. Americana) is much smaller, and the seeds of all 

 allied European and American species bear the same relative proportions ; and 

 so of other characters that I have compared, and which I may enumerate as 

 follows: — 



1st. Color and persistency of the leaves. — In which the American species 

 change to some brilliant hue, and fall comparatively early, while the European 

 co-species fade black, and are retained to a later period of the season. 



2d. Outline of the leaves. — In which the American species have the leaves 

 less lobed, less deeply toothed or serrated, less in width in proportion to their 

 length, and less petiolate than the European species. 



3d. Size of the seeds. — In which the American are smaller than the European. 



4th. Habit of growth. — In which the American is more diffuse, has much 

 fewer branchlets, and more and more vigorous main branches, and the outline 

 more irregular and informal than European trees. 



5th. Size of the buds. — In which the American have smaller ones than the 

 European, and usually set at wider spaces between the nodes. 



The observations finally made were taken at Germantown, Pa., during the 

 first week in November, 1861. 



European Species. 

 Laiix Europaea. 

 Quercus robur. 



" cerris. 

 Betula alba. 

 Populus tremnla. 



" dilatata. 

 Morns alba. 

 Euonymus Europseus. 

 Spiraea salicifolia. 

 Berberis vulgaris. 

 Carpinus betulus. 

 Cornus sanguinea. 

 Ulmus campestris. 

 Corylus avellana. 

 Alnus glutinosa. 

 Castanea vesca. 

 Pyrus mains. 

 Tilia Europfea. 

 Ulmus montana. 

 Fraxinus excelsior. 

 Cerasus padus. 



" mahaleb. 

 Fagus sylvatica. 

 1862.] 



American species. 

 Larix Americana. 

 Quercus alba. 



" macrocarpa. 



Betula popiilifolia. 

 Populus grandidentata. 



" Caroliniana. 



Morus rubra. 



Euonymus atropurpureus. 

 Spiraea carpinifolia. 

 Berberis Canadensis. 

 Carpinus Americanus. 

 Cornus sericea. 

 Ulmus Americana. 

 Corylus Americana. 

 Alniis serrulata. 

 Castanea Americana. 

 Pyrus coronaria. 

 Tilia Americana. 

 Ulmus fulva. 

 Fraxinus acuminata. 

 Cerasus Virginiana. 



" serotina. 

 Fagus ferruginea. 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



European species. American species. 



Cevcis siliquastrium. Cercis Canadensis. 



Celtis australis. Celtis occidentalis. 



Platanus orientalis. Platanus occidentalis. 



Acer platanoides. Acer saccharinum. 



Juglans regia. Juglans nigra. 



Crat£egus oxyacantha. Crataegus cordata. 



In the Jirst of the points to which attention has heen directed, the only ex- 

 ception appears to be in Larix Europcea, which drops its leaves at near the 

 same time as the American, and, unlike all the other species named, exhibits 

 in fading the same tinted leaves. 



In point 2. Fagus ferruginea has a more strongly toothed margin than the 

 European F. sijlvatica ; but it is also worthy of note that the leaves of the 

 English species are more coriacious than the American, which may have 

 checked the prolongation of the nerves forming the teeth in the latter species. 

 If there is any difference in the consistency of the leaves, it is usually in favor 

 of the American species. 



In 3. Quercus cerris has smaller acorns than C. macrocarpa, but it is the 

 most distantly allied species brought into comparison. 



In 4. I know of no exceptions. 



In 5. In some few instances the buds of European species appear to be no 

 larger than the American, and in still fewer instances seem smaller ; but the 

 rule holds good so generally as to form a striking and prevailing character. 



It is proper to remark that the observations were taken from allied species 

 that I have been able to find growing in proximity to each other, and in as 

 similar circumstances as possible. This is very important, as, to a limited 

 extent, circumstances have an influence in the variation of characters. For 

 instance, Quercus alba, when growing in the full light and unsurrounded by 

 other trees, has its leaves much more deeply sinuated than when growing in 

 a mass with others. Lack of attention to this fact would make standard 

 botanical works in some instances seem to oppose the conclusions I have 

 arrived at. As an example of this, Michaux figures Fagus ferruginea with 

 larger fruit than F. sylvatica, and the leaves of Juglans regia as less serrulate 

 than those of J. nigra, neither of which agrees with my experience of plants 

 grown near each other in this climate, and is probably, if not altogether, an 

 error in drawing, to be accounted for by the supposition that the sketches 

 were made from specimens growing under widely diverging circumstances. 



The species employed in the comparisons are not in all cases the nearest 

 that might be had. Pgrus baccata, for instance, would be a better match for 

 P. coronaria than P. nialus, but they were the befet my facilities afl'orded me. 

 Some allied trees could not be compared in all points, and were therefore left 

 from the list. yEsculus, for instance, had shed its leaves at the date given, — 

 too early for comparison in persistency of foliage ; but in points 2, 3, 4 and 5 

 the differences between ^. hippocastanum, on the European, and ^E. flava, on 

 the American side, agree with other species of the other genera named. 



The observations are perhaps too limited, in the absence of more extensive 

 examinations of other characters and other plants, to establish the fact that, 

 whatever may be the principle governing the origin of species, — whether it be 

 by "progressive development," "natural selection of physiological advan- 

 tages," or by "special and continuous acts of creation," — it is in conformity 

 with one regular and uniform law ; but their tendency is so evidently in that 

 direction, that I submit the facts for more general investigation, in the belief 

 that it will prove a novel and interesting branch of study in Botanical Science. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



Notice of a New Species of HEMILEPIDOTUS, and Remarks on the Group TEM- 

 NISTI3:) of which it is a member. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



In the family of Cottoids there exist three genera which quite closely re- 

 semble each and have a rather peculiar physiognomy, but at the same time 

 differ so decidedly from each other, and are distinguished by characters of 

 such previously acknowledged importance, that their close mutual affinity has 

 been overlooked ; and the re^ective genera have been referred to the neigh- 

 borhood of quite dissimilar groups.* The best and largest known of these 

 genera is Hemilipidotus of Cuvier ; the other two are Temnistia of Richardson 

 and Scorpcenichthi/s of Girard. For the group thus composed, the name of 

 Temniitice is preferable, as it describes the most peculiar character of the 

 group. Although Hemilepidotus is the chief genus, its name is too restrictive 

 to be modified for the appellation of the group. 



The Temnistia are distinguished by the development of the first dorsal fin, 

 which is more than half as long as the second, composed of about eleven 

 spines, and with the anterior spines rather shorter and more or less separated by a 

 notch or incision from the following. The supramaxillary bones, snout, supra- 

 •orbital region and the forehead and preorbital bones are furnished with cuta- 

 neous tags or barbels. 



The three genera are chiefly distinguished by the following differential cha- 

 racters. 



Temnistia Richardson. 



Abdomen nearly hemispherical and naked. Pectinated scales cover the rest of 

 the trunk. Second dorsal and anal Jins with undivided rays. 



Hemilepidotus Cuvier. 

 Scales in two longitudinal bands on each side, one dorsal and one lateral. 



ScoRP-EsicHTHTS Girard. 

 Body naked and smooth. V. I. 5. 



Five species, inclusive of that here described, are now known to belong to 

 the group. All of them are peculiar to the western coast of North America or 

 the Arctic Seas ; the typical species of Hemilepidotus, as well as the single 

 known Temnistia, are both found in the Northern waters. The existence of 

 Temnistia has been quite forgotten by the recent systematic writers, although 

 its rank as a valid genus cannot be challenged. 



Hemilepidotus Gibbsii Gill. 

 The form and proportions are nearly identical with those of n. spi/wstis 

 (Girard.) The crown, the region above the preoperculum and operculum, 

 and the interocular space, are granulated, but without spines. There are four 

 equidistant short flaps in a transverse row behind the interorbital area, four 

 papillose barbels on the margin of each preorbital bone, and another on the 

 suborbital above the end of the supramaxillary ; from the centre of the latter 

 a larger compressed flap springs. On the chin are four small flaps. A flap 

 also exists near the anterior angle of the upper cleft of the branchial aperture. 



* I embrace this opportunity to state that the genus Triglopsis of Girard is most closely 

 allied to my Oncocottus. of which the Cottus qnadricornis of Kurope is the type, and 

 differs chiefly in the absence of the " horns " or claviform tubercles and in its fresh water 

 habitat, &c. The entire family of Cottoids indeed requires a careful revision. Dr. 

 Giinther has been quite unsuccessful in his distribution of the species, and has regarded 

 as doubtful, species which belong to peculiar genera that have been clearly and distinc/ly 

 characterized, while genera and species whose claims to that rank are much more ques- 

 tionable have been admitted. 



1862.] 




14 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



1 



D. XI. 2, 16, 2. A. 14 -. C. 4, 5, 4, 3. P. 16. V. I. 4. 

 1 



The abdomen is spotted. The preopercular, interopercular and suborbital 

 regions, the membrane connecting tlie maxillary bones and the lower surface 

 of the head, are covered with large dark brown dots. The fins are more or less 

 distinctly banded or spotted; the ventrals whitish. 



Specimens of this species were obtained by Dr. Kennedy, the naturalist of 

 the North- Western Boundary Survey, and are also found at San Francisco, a 

 large specimen being in the same lot containing the true Eemilepidotus spinosux, 

 and confounded with it by Dr. Girard. From that species it differs in the 

 number and arrangement of the cutaneous tags as well as by color. 



I have dedicated the species to my friend, Mr. George Gibbs, who rendered 

 much valuable assistance to the naturalist of the Survey. A detailed descrip- 

 tion will be given in the Report on the Ichthyology of the Western Coast. 



On the Subfamily of ARGENTININ.ffi. 

 BY THEODORE GILL. 



In the " Catalogue of the Fishes of the Eastern Coast of North America," 

 the family of Salmonoids is divided, with Prince Bonaparte, into two sub- 

 families, — the Salmoninae and Argentiainae, — but with the very important 

 modification of the exclusion from the latter, as well as from the family itself, 

 of the genus Microsioma. With Bona])arte also Osmerus is retained among the 

 Salmouina?, while Mallotus is placed in the subfamily of Argentininae. The 

 great error involved in this arrangement was subsequently discovered, but 1 

 unfortunately forgot to correct it in the Catalogue. The only character which 

 thus separates the two subfamilies is the development of the teeth, — a charac- 

 ter of secondary value. The two subfamilies are very distinct from each other, 

 but distinguished chiefly by the modifications of the intestinal canal. 



The Salmoninae have the stomach nearly or quite siphonal, and the pyloric 

 caeca are numerous. 



The ArgentininEB have the stomach decidedly caecal, and the ca;ca are gene- 

 rally five in number, and surround the pyloric extremiiy of the stomach. 



Dr. Kner, in his excellent contribution on the form of the stomach and the 

 development of the pyloric caeca, has even suggested that Osmerus and its 

 allies may belong to a difi'erent family ; and it certainly appears quite pro- 

 bable that such is the case. The position of the Argentininae, as a subfamily 

 of the Salmonoids, is therefore provisional. 



The Argentininae, as now characterized, are divisible among two distinct 

 groups ; one has the normal salraonoid position of the dorsal fin, or, in other 

 words, it is subcentral, and above or nearly above the ventrals. This group 

 embraces all the common northern or European and American species. 



Another group, represented by a single species, is distinguished by the pos- 

 terior insertion of the dorsal and its position above the anus ; the species is an 

 inhabitant of Australasian seas, and has been described under the name of 

 Argentina rctropiruia, by Sir John Richardson. The specific name may be ac- 

 cepted as a generic appellation, while the species can be called in honor of its 

 learned describer, Rctropinna Richardsonii. 



A species of the true Argentine group also is the type of a distinct genus 

 nearly allied to Argentina?, with which it agrees in the number of brancbios- 

 tegal rays, but the mouth is larger, the dentition different and the ventral fins 

 more advanced. Its type n the Argeiitina pretiosa of Girard, or Osmerus elonga- 

 ius of Ayres. It may be named Mesopus, in allusion to the position of the 

 ventral fins. 



The following synopsis exhibits the relations and diflferential characters of 

 the several genera : — 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



I. Dorsal subcentral, above or nearly above the ventrala Argentina. 



A. Branchiostegal rays 8. Mouth rather large. Ventrals 

 under the front or in advance of dorsal. 



Scales of the male villose or pointed, in a lateral 



band. Pectoral and ventrals much developed M.allotus. 



Scales alike and simple in both sexes. Pectorals 



and ventrals moderate Osmerus. 



AA. Branchiostegal rays 6. Mouth small; maxillar ceas- 

 ing under front of eyes. Ventrals nearly under 



middle of dorsal llypomesus. 



AAA. Branchiostegal rays 6. Mouth very small ; maxillars 

 not extending to eyes. Ventrals inserted under rear 

 of or behind the dorsal. 



Scales cycloid Argentina. 



Scales with exposed surface spinigerous Silus. 



II. Dorsal far behind, above anus RETR0PiNN.i:. 



Branchiostegal rays 6. Scales cycloid Retropinna. 



The genus Thalekhthys, of Girard, has not been adopted, it appearing to be, 

 as Dr. Ayres has already shown, identical with Osmerus. The latter gentleman 

 has remarked, "that the very species which the describer takes as the type of 

 Thaleichthys, has occasionally teeth on the palatines well developed : and one 

 specimen in my possession shows even denticulations on the niaxillaries.'' 



There is a very considerable analogical resemblance between the group of 

 Argentinae and the Salmonine genus Argyrosomus of Agassiz, — a resemblance 

 more especially manifested between the genus Hypomesus and the Am»rican 

 Argyrosomus alius (Coregonus albus, Les.) and the A. albula [Coregonus albulus, 

 Val.) of Northern Europe. The likeness, however, appears simply to be one of 

 analogy, and not indicative of close affinity. 



Appendix to the Synopsis of the Subfamily of PERCIN.ffi:. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



Since the publication of the " Synopsis of the Subfamily of Percinae," we 

 have become acquainted with two quite distinct generic types which are now 

 referred to their places in the system. This appendix will consequently perfect 

 to date the synopsis, and exhibits the condition of our present knowledo-e of 

 the Percinae, with the exception, perhaps, of the relations of the Labrax lyiuy 

 of Basilewski. That species does not appear to belong to Labrax, but rather 

 to an unnamed genus, but the description is too defective to admit of its pro- 

 per classification. 



Genus Chorististcm Gill. 



Liopropoma? sp. Po^y, Memorias sobra la Historia Natural de la Isla de Cuba 

 vol. ii. 



Body fusiform, with the caudal peduncle high and compressed. Head rather 

 elongated, conic in profile and acute in front, but with the outline slightlj' 

 curved. Lower jaw protuberant. Teeth villiform on the jaws, vomer and pala- 

 tine bones. Preopercr.lum entire. Operculum armed with two spines. Scales 

 on the whole body, except the muzzle. Dorsal fins entirely .separated : the 

 first with five spines diminishing from the second ; the second dorsal with a 

 single spine. Anal armed with three graduated spines, and with the soft 

 portion elevated backwards. Caudal subtruncated. Lateral line anterior! v 

 arched. 



Type. Chorististium rubrnm, Gill. 



Syn. Liopropoma? rubre, Poey. Memorias sobra la Historia Natural de la 

 Isla de Cuba. Tomo ii., p. 



1862.] 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



This genus is represented by a single species, and is distinguished from Li- 

 opropoma chiefly by the modification of tbe dorsal fin, but differs also by other 

 less important peculiarities. The name of Chorislistium has been bestowed on it 

 in allusion to the separation of the second dorsal from the first,* on account of 

 the atrophy of the antecedent spines of the former which occur in Liopropoma. 



Genus Sixiperca Gill. 

 Perca Basilcu-sM, Noveaux Memoires de la Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes de 

 Moscou. Tome X., p. 217. 1855. 

 Non Perca, Linn. 



Body oblong and compressed, covered with small scales. Lateral line little 

 arched in front. Head mostly scaleless, oblong, with the profile slightly in- 

 curved to the eyes, and with the snout conic and slightly convex before eyes. 

 Eyes small, entirely in the anterior half of the head. Mouth rather large, the 

 supramaxillary bones continued under or behind the eyes. Lower jaw promi- 

 nent. Teeth villiform on the jaws, vomer and palatine bones. Preopercnlura 

 serrated behind, beneath with three or four spines or lobes. Operculum termi- 

 nating in a spine. Branchiostegal rays seven. Dorsal fins connected at base; 

 the first arched, with twelve spines ; the second short and quadrate. Anal with 

 three spines, the second of which ia short or moderate ; the soft part corre- 

 sponding to the second dorsal. Caudal entire. Pectoral fins rounded behind. 



Type. Siniperca chua-tsi, Gill. 



Syn. Perca chua-tsi, Basilewski, op, cit., tome x., p. 218, tab. 1, fig. 1. 



This is a very distinct and peculiar genus, its physiognomy recalling to mind 

 the Lates calcarifer more than any other fish, but it widely differs from Lates in 

 the development of the first dorsal fin, the almost or quite naked head, the 

 small size of the scales on the trunk and the slight armature of the opercular 

 bones. It is composed of only two known species, the Perca chua-tsi and P. 

 chuan-tsi of Basilewski, both of which are inhabitants of the Chinese rivers. 

 In allusion to this restriction of habitat to the Chinese Empire, the name of 

 Siniperca may be given. Dr. Basilewski has very well formulated the charac- 

 ters of the genus, but he has unfortunately employed for it the name of Perca; 

 the latter must of course be retained for tlat to which it was originally given, 

 and it then becomes necessary to rename the Chinese fishes. 



Note on the SCI.S:N0IDS of California. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



Dr. Ayres has recently described, in the "Proceedings of the California 

 Academy of Natural Sciences," two new species of Scisenoids, for one of which 

 he has framed a new gentis, (Seriphus,) and the other has been referred to 

 Johnius. Dr. Ayres has also expressed his belief in the close affinity of Se- 

 riphus and Johnius. On perusing his description, and after an examination of 

 his outline figures, I am convinced that iSeriphus is most closely allied to that 

 as yet unnamed genus of which the Anci/lodon pannpinnis of Cuvier and Va- 

 lenciennes is the type, while the Johnius nohilis belongs to one nearly allied to 

 the weak fishes ( Cynoscion) of the Eastern American coast, and is congeneric 

 with Cuvier's Otolithus cequidens of the Cape of Good Hope. The two species 

 of California are consequently not only generically distinct, but they appear 

 to me to represent two subfamilies, equally distinct from each other and from 

 the Sciseninae.f 



* Xa-pisTToc, separate and 'I^-t/ot, sail. 



*It may be here remarked that the genus Camarina of Ayres is not at all related to 

 the Pomacentroids, but is synonymous with the genus Girella of Gray and GUnther. 

 Dr. Ayres has stated that the " genus,-though resembling in general features some specie« 

 of Pomacentrug, presents a new grouping of generic characters." 



[Jan. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS, 



With references to the several Articles contributed by each. 



Alien. Harrison. M. D. Descriptions of two new Species of Vespertilionidje. aud 

 some remarks on the genus Antrozous 246 



Buckley, S. B. Notes on some American Asii Trees, (Fraxinus,) with de- 



scriptions of new Species - 



Descriptions of new Plants from Texas, No. 2 5 



Descriptions of Plants, No. 3 88 



Note No. 2. On Quercus heterophylla..... 100 



Cassin, John. Catalogue of Birds collected by the United States North Pa- 

 cific Surveying and Exploring Expedition, in command of Capi. 



Rodgers, U. S. N., with notes and descriptions of new species 312 



Conrad, T. A. Descriptions of New Genera, Subgenera and Species of 



Tertiary and Recent Shells 284 



Catalogue of the Miocene Shells of the Atlantic Slope 559 



Cope, E. D. Synopsis of the species of Holcosus and Ameiva, with diag- 

 noses of new W. Indian and S. American Colubridae 60 



On some new and little known American Anura 151 



Contributions to Neotropical Saurology 176 



On Neosorex Albibarbis 188 



On Lacerta echinata and Tiliqua dura 189 



Notes upon some Reptiles of the Old World 337 



Catalogues of the Reptiles obtained during the Explorations of the Parana. 

 Paraguay, Vermejo and Uraguay Rivers, by Capt. Thos. J. Page, 

 IT. S. N. ; and of those procured by Lieut. N. Michler, U. S. Top. 



Eng 346 



Coues, Elliott. Revision of the Gulls of- North America ; based upon speci- 

 mens in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution 291 



Supplementary note to a Synopsis of the North American forms of the 



Colymbida? and Podicepidae 404 



A Review of the Terns of N. America 535 



Edwards, Wm. H. Description of certain species of Diurnal Lepidoptera 

 found within the limits of the United States and British America, 



No. 2 54 



The same, No. 3 221 



Elliott. D. G. Remarks on the species composing the genus Pediocaet^s, 



Baird 40:: 




11- LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



Gabb, W. M. Description of a new species of Cephalopod from tlie Coast 



of California 433 



Gili, Theo. Notice of New Species of Hemilepidotus and Remarks on the 



Group (Temnistise) of which it is a member 13 



On the Subfamily of Argeutininae 14 



Appendix to the Synopsis of the Subfamily Percins 15 



Notes on the Scisenoids of California 16 



Synopsis of the Family of Cirrhitoids 102 



Description of new species of Cirrhitus 122 



On the limits and arrangemement of the Family of Scombroids 124 



Description of new species of Alepidosauroidae 127 



On anew species of Priacanthus discovered in Narragansett Bay, R. I.... 132 

 Od. the West African genus Hemichromis and descriptions of new 



species 134 



Catalogue of the Fishes of Lower California in the Smithsonian Institu- 

 tion, collected by Mr. J. Xanthus 140 



Same, Part II 242 



Same, Part III 24? 



On a new genus of Fishes allied to Aulorhynchus and on the affinities of 



the Family Aulorhynchoidae 23;-"- 



Remarks on the relations of Genera and other groups Cuban Fishes 235 



Notice of a collection of the Fishes of California, presented to the Smith- 

 sonian Institution, by S. Hubbard 274 



Synopsis of the species of Lophobranchiate Fishes of Western North 



America 282 



Note on the Family of Scombroids 328 



Note on some Genera of Fishes of Western N. America 32? 



Synopsis of the Carangoids of the Eastern Coast of North America 430 



Description of a new generic type of Mormyroids, and note on the arrange- 

 ment of the genus 443 



On the Synonymy and Systematic Position of the genus Etelis of Cuvier 



and Valenciennes 445 



On, the Classification of the Families and Genera of the Squali of Cali- 

 fornia 483 



On the limits and affinity of the Family of Leptoscopoids 501 



Gray, Asa. Notes upon the " Description of New Plants from Texas. By 

 S. B. Buckley," published in the Proceedings of the Academy cf 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, December 1861, and January 



1862 IGl 



A Report upon Mr. S, B. Buckley's " Description of Plants, No. 3, Gra- 



minae" 332 



Grote, Aug. R. Additions to the Nomenclature of North American Lepi- 



doptera 59 



Same, No. 2 350 



Hayden, F. Y., M. D. Descriptions of new Cretaceous Fossils from Nebraska 



Territory. By F. B. Meek and F. V. Hayden 21 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. Ill 



Horn, Geo. H., M. D. Monograph of the species of Trogosita, inhabiting 



the United States 82 



Lea, Isaac. Description of ten new species of Unionidse of the United 



States 1G8 



Description of a new Genus (Trypanostoma) of the Family Melanidse, and 



of forty-five new species 169 



Description of two new species of Exotic Uniones and one Monocondylcea 176 

 Description of a new Genus (Goaiobasis) of the Family Melanidoe and 



eighty-two new species 262 



Description of eleven new species of Melanidse of the United States 272 



Le Cocte, John L.,M. D. Note on the Classification of Cerarabycidae, with 



descriptions of new species 38 



Synopsis of the Mordellidae of the United States 43 



Notes on the species of Calosoma inhabiting America, north of .Mexico... 521 



Synopsis of the species of Colymbetes, inhabiting America north of Mexico 521 



Note on the species of Brachinus inhabiting the United States 52."'. 



Lewis, James, M. D. Remarks on some species of Paludina, Amnicola, 



Valvata and Melania 587 



Meehan, Thos. On the Uniformity of Relative Characters between Allied 



Species of European and American Trees 10 



Meek, F. B. Descriptions of new Cretaceous Fossils from Nebraska Terri- 

 tory. ByF. B. MeekandF. V, Hayden 21 



Prime, Temple. Monograph of the Species of Sphserium of North and 



South America 28 



Slack, J. H., M. D. Monograph of the Prehensile-tailed Quadrumana 507 



Stimpson, Wm. Description of a new Cardium from the Pleistocene of 



Hudson's Bay 58 



On an oceanic Isopod, found near the south-eastern shores of Massachu- 

 setts 133 



TryoL, Geo. W., Jr. On the Classification and Synonymy of the recent spe- 

 cies of Pholadidse 191 



Description of a new Genus and Species of Pholadidte 449 



Notes on American Fresh Water Shells, with descriptions of two new 



species 451 



Monograph of the Family Teredidae 453 



Walsh, Benj. D., M. A. List of the Pseudoneuroptera of Illinois, contained 

 in the Cabinet of the writer, with descriptions of over forty new 

 species 361 



Warner, John, A. M. Contributions to Organic Morphology : — Containing 

 the mathematical imitation of the egg of Planorbis Corneus and of 

 Epiornis, &c 525 



Winchell, Alex. Description of Fossils from the Marshall and Hurou 



Groups of Michigan 405 





NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



Five species of Sciaenoids are now known as inhabitants of the western coast 



of the United States ; they represent apparently three groups or subfamilies. 



The Sci^xix^ or Corvinin.e are restricted to those species of the family 



having the normal or nearly the normal number ( j^) of vertebrae, that of the 

 caudal being sometimes increased. The snout is more or less protuberant' 

 and the lower jaws generally received within the upper. The lower pha- 

 ryngeal bones are separated ; the upper triple on each side. 

 Three of the Californian species belong to this group. 



1. Rhixoscion satukxus Gill. 



Amblodon saturnas Girard. 



2. Umbrina uxdulatcs Girard. 



Menticirrhus undulatus Gill. 



8. GENYOXEMrS LINEATUS Gill. 



Leiostomus lineatus Ayres. 



The second species was formerly referred to Menticirrhus, but as I am now 

 acquainted with a true Umhrina from Lower California, I prefer to retain 

 Girard's species in the latter genus. The description of Girard, although very 

 unsatisfactory, rather tends to confirm the propriety of such restoration. 



The following synopsis of the Umhrina of Cuvier shows the principal distinc- 

 tions of the several genera. 



I. Dorsal spines ten. 



Head oblong and declivous above ; caudal equal Umbrina. 



Head rather elongated ; caudal unequally lobed ; the upper 



pointed, the lower convex Menticirrhus. 



H. Dorsal spines thirteen. 



Head rather short and blunt Cirrimens.* 



The second subfamily or group is that of the OTOLiTHiXi^, which, I have 

 discovered since the publication of the notice of the North American Sciaenoids, 

 is distinguished by the reversed proportions of the numbers of the vertebrae. f 

 The body is fusiform, and the lower jaw is prominent or at least even with the 

 upper. 



To this belongs the following species : — 



4. Atractosciox xobilis Gill. 

 Johnius nobilis Ayres. 



The following synopsis exhibits the characters of Atractoscion compared with 

 the other genera of Otolithinse. 



A. Height less than one-fourth of length. (Vertebrae 



14 



about j^.) Otolithixa'. 



B. Teeth regularly attenuated and pointed. 



Eyes very large, the diameter longer than the snout. 



*The type of this genus is the Vmbrina ophioccphalus of Jenjns. 

 tBy this character the OtolithinaE are disiinguished from ihe Larimin j:, which has 

 nearly the normal number and proportion of the vertebrae (^l^pLh. Possibly Odonfo- 



scion, as Gunther supposes, may be most nearly allied to this group, but it appears more 

 nearly connected to the Otolithms. The Laruninae have, then, two genera very distinct 

 from each other, and recognizable by ihe following characters; — 

 Second aorsal much longer than the first. (= I. 24—30} L. bievicepsCxxy. Larimus. 

 Second dorsal as short or shorter than first. (= I. 13.) L. aiiritus Cuv. Brachydeutcrus. 



1862.] 2 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Teeth iu external row large Odontoscion.* 



Eyes moderate, the diameter less than the snout. 

 Teeth in 1 — 3 rows. 

 Anal fin I.— II. 7—13. 



Canine teeth of lower jaw large Otolithus.f 



Canine teeth in lower jaw obsolete. 



Psendobranchire developed Cynoscion.J 



Pseudobranchise obsolete Apseudobranchns. § 



Anal fin I. 15 — 16 Archoscion.|| 



Teeth cardiform or pluriserial Atractoscion.lT 



BB. Teeth above in front (2) and beneath on sides large and 



arrow-shaped Ancylodon.** 



The third group is composed of two genera, and may be called IsopisthiXjE. 

 The only species of the Californian is that named by Ayres. 



5. Seriphus POLiTus Ayres. 

 The following are the characters of the group and genera : — 



A. Dorsal fins quite remote ; second dorsal and anal subeqnal, 



oblong ISOPISTHIN.S. 



Scales small and cycloid. Canine teeth above in front and 



below on sides very large and lanceolate Isopisthus. 



Scales large, strongly ciliated. Teeth distinct, iu one or 



two rows Seriphus. 



The discovery of representatives of such rare tj-pes on that coast which has 

 already furnished so remarkable a number of peculiar forms, is a discovery of 

 much interest. 



I have, in my treatise on the North American Scisenoid genera, alluded to 

 the external dilFerences between the Corvininse and Otolithiuse, but, unable to 

 find other satisfactory characters, declined at that time to consider them as 

 distinct subfamilies. It was after an examination of Dr. Giinther's work that 

 my attention was arrested by the coincidence between the proportions of the 

 abdominal and caudal vertebrae and the external form, and I cannot but believe 

 that the value that has been now given to the groups is merited by their im- 

 portance. To Dr. Giinther we are indebted for having first assigned to the 

 family of Sciaenoids its true limits. He appears to have retained such, and 

 such only, as are genuine members of the family. Some, as Isopisthus and 

 Ser [pints, seem indeed to have some relation to the carangoid Scombroids, such 

 as Lactarius, but the affinity is probably remote. The wide separation above 

 proposed between Isopisthus and Ancylodon does not appear to be unnatural. 



The resignation of R. E. Griffith as Librarian was read and accepted. 



The following was read and adopted : 



Resolved, That the Committee on the Library, in conjunction with 

 the Librarian, be authorized to employ an assistant for one year, at a 

 salary not to exceed twenty-five dollars per month. 



The Auditors reported that they had examined the Treasurer's an- 

 nual report and had found it correct. 



*Ti/pe. Corvina dentex Cuv. ct Val. ]T^pe. Otolithus ruber Cuv. et Val. 

 lOtolithus regalis Cuv. §Otolithus toe-roe Cuv. et Val. 



II Otolithus analis Jenyns. ^Otolithus sequidens Cuv. et Val. 



**Ancylodon jaculidensCui'. etVal. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



19 



Pursuant to the By-Laws, an election of members of the Standing 

 Committees for 1862 was held; and a Librarian was also elected, as 

 follows : 



[ETHNOLOGY. 



J. A. Meigs, 



S. S. Haldeman, 



I. I. Hayes. 



COMP. ANAT. cj- GEN. ZOOLOGY. 

 J. Leidy, 

 J. M. Corse, 

 J. H. Slack, 



MAMMALOGY. 

 J. H. Slack, 

 John Cassin, 

 J. L. Le Conte. 



ORNITHOLOGY. 

 John Cassin, 

 s. w. woodhouse, 

 J. H, Slack. 



HERFETOL OGY^ ICHTHYOLOG Y. 

 E. D. Cope, 

 R, Bridges, 

 J. C. Morris. 



CONCHOLOGY. 

 T. A. Conrad, 



W. Gr. BiNNEY, 



G. W. Tryon, jr. 



ENTOMOLOGY AND CRUSTACEA. 

 R. Bridges, 

 Samuel Lewis, 



E. T. Cresson, 



BOTANY, 

 E. DURAND, 



Joseph Carson, 

 Aubrey H. Smith. 



GEOLOGY. 

 Isaac Lea, 

 Charles E. Smith, 

 J. P. Lesley. 



MINERALOGY. 

 Wm, S. Vaux, 

 J. G. Trautwine, 

 T. D. Rand. 



PALEONTOLOGY. 

 Joseph Leidy, 

 T. A. Conrad, 

 J. L. Le Conte, 



PHYSICS. 

 B. Howard Rand, 

 Wm. M. Uhler, 

 R. E. Rogers. 



LIBRARY, 



Wm. S. Vaux, 

 Joseph Leidy, 

 Joseph Jeanes. 



PROCEEDINGS. 

 Robert Bridges, 

 Joseph Leidy, 

 Wm. S. Vaux, 

 John Cassin, 

 Thomas Stewardson. 



LIBRARIAN. 



J. Dickinson Sergeant. 



1862.] 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



February \th. 

 Dr. Leidy in the Chair. 



Twenty-three members present. 



The foIloAviog were presented for publication : 



Descriptions of certain speices of Lepidoptera, by W. H. Edwards. 



Description of a new Cardium from the Pleistocene of Hudson's Bay, 

 by "Wm. Stimpson. 



Dr. Fisher stated that on the 24th of last December, 24 minutes 

 past 4, P. M., at Budd's Ferry, Md., he had observed a brilliant meteor 

 in the southwest, about 20° above the horizon. Its path subtended an 

 arc of 25 to SC*, and its size appeared to be about that of the full moon 

 when in the zenith. 



February Wih. 



Dr. Le Conte in the Chair. 



Twelve members present. 

 The following were presented for publication : 

 Monograph of the species of tSphgerium, by Temple Prime. 

 Synopsis of the species of Hclcosus and Ameiva, with diagnoses of 

 new West Indian and South American Colubridas, by E. D. Cope. 



Februai-y \'^th. 

 Vice President Bridges in the Chair. 



Twenty members present. 



The following were presented for publication : 



Synopsis of the Mordellidse of the United States; Note on the species 

 of Calosoma, &c. j Note on the Classification of Cerambycidse, &c. By 

 John L. Le Conte, M. D. 



Note on Quercus Heterophylla ; Descriptions of Plants By S. B. 

 Buckley. 



Monograph of the species of Trogosita, &c., by G. H. Horn, M. D. 



Additions to the Nomenclature of North American Lepidoptera, by 

 Aug. R. Grote. 



Mr. Yaux, on behalf of the Committee on Proceedings, laid on the 

 table the No. for last December. 



Dr. Bridges, on behalf of the Publication Committee, announced the 

 publication, on the 11th inst., of Vol. V. pt. 1 of the Journal, 



February 25(h. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Nineteen members present. 



The following were ordered to be printed in the Proceedings : 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



Descriptions of new CRETACEOUS FOSSILS from Nebraska Territory, collected 

 by the Expedition sent out by the Government under the command of Lieut. 

 John Mullan, TI. S. Topographical Engineers, for the location and construc- 

 tion of a "Wagon Road from the sources of the Missouri to the Pacific 

 Ocean.* 



BY F. B. MEEK AND F. V. HAYDEN, 



The collections containing the fossils described in this paper, were obtained 

 along the Missouri River at various localities between Fort Beaton aad points 

 140 to 150 miles below the Fort. The new forms here for the first time made 

 known, are all labelled " Chippewa Point," which is some twenty odd miles 

 below Fort Beaton. There are also in the collection from this locality, and ap- 

 parently from the same rock, some fine specimens of our Inoceramus umhonatus 

 and I. fraf/iUs, Hall and Meek. The presence of the latter species, and the 

 affinities of several of the new forms, indicate that these fossils all come from 

 No. 2 of the Nebraska Cretaceous series, which is known to be extensively 

 developed in that region: fragments of one or two of the new species at least, 

 have certainly been found in that horizon at other places. As we have no sec- 

 tion of the strata exposed at this locality, however, we are without the means 

 of knowing whether or not these fossils all came from the one bed. Indeed, 

 some of them being quite peculiar, and very unlike anything hitherto known 

 in our Nebraska series at other localities, it is barely possible there may be a 

 member here of the Cretaceous not previously recognized elsewhere in this 

 region. 



There are also in the collection from the same place as the above, a number 

 0^ good s^^icimans of Alrypa reticularis ; they are labelled "Chippewa Point, 

 300 feet above the level of the river." These are of Devonian or Upper Silu- 

 rian age, and were doubtless broken from boulders, or other erratic masses, 

 brought by drift agencies from some distant northern locality, and of course 

 have no connection with the geology of this immediate vicinity. 



At another locality, ninety miles below Fort Benton, a specimen of our Tan- 

 credia Ainericana, and a few other bivalves, were obtained, though we do not 

 know whether they were found in situ or loose. They evidently belong to the 

 same beds occurring at the mouth of Judith River, farther up, which we have 

 elsewhere referred with doubt to the Dakota Group, (No. 1) of the Nebraska 

 Cretaceous series. That this bed is Cretaceous, is proved by the occurrence in 

 it of of Baculiles, as well as by the affinities of its other fossils, excepting the 

 Tancredia, which would alone point to a lower horizon. Its exact position iri 

 the Cretaceous series still remains doubtful. 



The collection also contains from other places 125 to 150 miles below Fort 

 Benton, specimens of Ostrea subtrigonalis, Evans and Shumard, and of the fol- 

 lowing species elsewhere described by us : — Corlicula \^Cyrena'\ cj/therifonnisj 

 Corbula perniidata, Vivipara Co nr a di and V. irochiformis ; all of which belong to 

 the Fort Union Group, (brackish water and lower Tertiary deposits) of that 

 region. Some of these were probably obtained from loose masses. Good speci- 

 mens of Baculiles compressus, Say, were likewise collected near one of these 

 latter localities. 



Figures and more extended descriptions of the new species here indicated 

 are to be prepared by us for publication in Lieut. MuUan's final Report. 



•The fossils described in this paper were collected by Mr. John Pearsall, who acted 

 as naturalist of Lieut Mulian's expedition. 



1862] 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



CEPHALOPODA. 

 Genus SCAPHITES, Parkinson. 



SCAPDITES TENTKICOSrS. 



Shell ventricose, attaininga rather large size, oval-subglobose in form, broadly 

 rounded on the dorsum. Umbilicus very small, deep, and showing scarcely any 

 part of the inner whorls. Volutions about three to three and a half, increasing 

 rather rapidly in size, particularly in breadth, nearly twice as wide transversely 

 as from the dorsal to the ventral side; all regularly rounded on each side and 

 deeply embracing within ; last one deflected from the regular curve of the 

 others so as to become slightly disconnected at the aperture, which is trans- 

 versely reniform or lunate. Surface ornamented with numerous small, rather 

 regular costfs, some forty-five to fifty-five of which may be counted around the 

 dorsum of each turn, where they are of uniform size, excepting their gradual 

 and uniform enlargement with the whorls. On the outer, or last volution, only 

 every fifth or sixth one of the costaj extends across to the umbilical margin ; 

 the intermediate ones becoming obsolete on the sides, where those extending 

 entirely across become larger, more prominent and more angular than on the 

 dorsum. 



The septa are each provided with five deeply-divided principal lobes. The 

 dorsal lobe is longer than wide, and has on each side of its very slender body 

 three main branches, the two terminal of which are slightly larger than the 

 next pair above, and each provided with three or four small unequal subdi- 

 visions on the outer side. The dorsal saddle is as large as the dorsal lobe, 

 extremely narrow at its base and profoundly divided at its extremity into two 

 unequal branches, of which the one on the dorsal side is larger than the other, 

 and distinctly tripartite, each of its subdivisions being deeply sinuous and ob- 

 tusely digitate. The other main branch is very narrow, and provided with 

 several short, obtusely rounded, irregular lateral divisions. The superior 

 lateral lobe is as wide as the dorsal lobe, but shorter, and ornamented with 

 two large, nearly equal bifurcating terminal branches, the lateral subdivisions 

 of which are bifid and more or less digitate, while the other two are each pro- 

 vided with from five to seven digitations. The lateral saddle is much smaller 

 than the dorsal saddle, very narrow at its base, and consists above of two equal 

 trilobate terminal branches. The inferior lateral lobe is little more than one- 

 third as large as the superior, and very similarly divided, excepting that its 

 branches are proportionally shorter. The ventral lobe is very small and armed 

 with three or four short, simple divisions. 



Length, 313 inches; height, 2 65 inches; breadth or convexity, 1-90 inch. 



In its external ornamentation, this shell is much like a species described by 

 us from near the Black Hills, under the name of S. Warreni, (Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., May, I860, p. 177.) It differs, however, remarkably in size and 

 form, being nearly twenty times as large, and proportionally much more ventri- 

 ccse, while its volutions increase much more rapidly in size. Its umbilicus is 

 also proportionall} smaller and its body whorl not deflected so far from the coil 

 of the inner turns. As we have not yet had an opportunity to see the septa of 

 S. Warreni, we have no means of knowing how nearly these foims may agree 

 in their internal structure. 



Locality and position. — Chippewa Point, near Fort Benton, on the Upper Mis- 

 souri ; Fort Benton Group of the Nebraska Cretaceous series. 



SCAPHITES VERMIFOKMIS, 



Shell attaining a medium size, oval subdiscoidal in form. Umbilicus very 

 small. Volutions increasing gradually in size, rounded on the dorsum and 

 sides, and deeply embracing withiti ; all a little broader transversely than from 

 the dorsal to the ventral side ; last one deflected from the regular curve of the 

 Others, so as to become slightly disconnected at the aperture, which is trans- 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



versely subreniform, or a little oval, with a somewhat sinuous inner margin. 

 Surface ornamented by numerous straight costae, which are small and nearly 

 regular on the inner volutions, but become more irregular and larger on the 

 sides of the body whorl, where they support around each dorso-lateral region, 

 a row of prominent nodes so disposed as to alternate on opposite aides of the 

 shell. 



On the dorsum the costse are of uniform size, with the exception of their 

 regular enlargement with the whorls. The nodes are directed out at right 

 angles to the plane of the shell, and, like the costae, become again smaller and 

 more closely arranged towards the aperture. Some of the costae bifurcate at 

 the nodes on the body whorl, but their number is also increased by the inter- 

 calation of others between. Where they bifurcate at any of the nodes on one 

 side, the two divisions crossing over the dorsum from the point of bifurcation, 

 never both intersect a node on the opposite side, but, in most cases, one of 

 them, and sometimes both, terminate between two of the nodes on the other 

 side. In crossing over the dorsum, near the aperture, they all curve a little 

 forward, but on other parts of the shell they pass nearly or quite straight 

 across. 



The septate portion of the only specimen of this species in the collection 

 being highly crystalline, the sutures of its septa cannot be very clearly traced 

 out. We can see. however, that ttie dorsal lobe is a little longer than wide. It 

 has a rather narrow body, and is provided with three branches on each side, 

 the upper pair of which are small and nearly simple, while the nest pair are 

 longer and bifid, and the terminal pair, which are a little larger than the second, 

 are each ornamented by three small, pointed branches or digita'ious on the 

 outer side. The superior lateral lobe is somewhat irregularly tripartite, the 

 lateral divisions being bifid and sharply digitate, while the terminal, which is 

 longer than the others and not exactly central, has about five pointed digita- 

 tions, or sharp, nearly or quite simple branchlets. The lateral saddle is deeply 

 divided at the extremity into two nearly equal branches. The inferior lateral 

 saddle is not more than about one-third" as large as the superior, nearly as long 

 as wide and regularly tripartite, while the others have about four digitations 

 each, and show a slight disposition to bifurcate. 



Length, 2-10 inches; height, 1-76 inch; greatest breadth measuring to the 

 extremities of the nodes on opposite sides, 1-25 inches ; do. between the nodes, 

 I inch. 



This species is related to iS". hippocrepis of Dekay, sp. (= Ammonites hippO' 

 crepis, Dekay, An. N. Y. Lyceum, vol. ii. pi. v. fig. 5,) but differs in having its 

 body whorl less extended away from the coil of inner volutions, and in being 

 higher in proportion to its length. Its nodes are also larger and much more 

 prominent; but the most marked difference between these two forms is in their 

 septa, the dorsal lobe of that under consideration being proponionally much 

 narrower and provided with three instead of two branches on each side: while 

 its lateral lobes are distinctly tripartite instead of bifid. 



It is also allied to 5. Tezanus, Roemer, (Kreid. von Tex., tab. 1, fig. 4,) 

 though its septa differ as widely from those of that shell as from ^S. hippocrepis. 



Its smaller size, less ventricose form, narrower whorls, and distinct nodes, 

 will at once distinoruish it from the last described species, with which it was 

 found associated. Its septa also differ in the tripartite character of its lateral 

 lobes, which is an unusual feature in this genus. 



Locality and position. — Same as last. 



Genus AMMONITES, Bruguiere. 

 Ammoxites JIl'llananus. 

 Shell compressed-subglobose; rounded on the dorsum. Umbilicus small, 

 deep and acutely conical, — between one-third and one-half as wide as the 



1862.] 




24 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



breadth of the outer whorl from the dorsal to the ventral side, showing about 

 one-third of each inner volution. Whorls increasing rapidly in size, particu- 

 larly at right angles to the plane of the shell. — sloping on each side from near 

 the umbilicus (with a slightly convex outline) towards the dorsum, and round- 

 ing abru[)tly into the umbilicus on the ventral side; each of those within deeply 

 embraced by the succeeding turn. Aperture transversely reniform orsublunate. 

 Surface ornamented with rather small, regular, rounded costas, which pass 

 nearly straight across the sides of the whorls, and arch slightly forward in 

 crossing over the dorsum. On the dorsal side, (where they are of uniform size,) 

 from thirty-six to forty of the costaj may be counted to every turn. Each of 

 those commencing at the umbilicus is there usually a little enlarged, especially 

 on the larger whorls, so as to form a small, subnodose prominence. Beyoud 

 these they all (particularly on the inner whorls) bifurcate regularly once, near 

 the middle of each side, and on the larger turns others are also intercalated 

 between, so as to make the number on the dorsal side five or six times as 

 great as at ihe umbilicus. 



The septa are rather crowded and provided with variously branched and 

 deeply sinuous lobes and saddles. The dorsal lobe is about one-fourth longer 

 than wide, nearl^^ obovate in form, and ornamented with three principal 

 branches on each side, the two terminal of which are larger than the others 

 and eacli provided on the outer side with two or three more or less digitate 

 lateral branchlets, while the inner parallel margins are merely sharply serrated. 

 The dorsal saddle is of about the same size as the dorsal lobe, a little oblique, 

 nearly oblong in form, and divided at the extremity into two tripartite and 

 obtusely digitate branches, of which the one on the dorsal side is larger than 

 the other ; below these it is provided on each side with two alternating lateral 

 branches with sinuous margins. The superior lateral lobe is narrower and 

 shorter than the dorsal lobe, and provided with two principal branches on 

 each side, the two terminal of which are much larger than the others, and of 

 unequal size, — tlie one on the right or dorsal side being the larger. Both of 

 these terniiiial branches are distinctly bipartite, the subdivisions being orna- 

 mented with several branchlets and smaller digitations. The lateral saddle is 

 about half as wide and near two-thirds as long as the dorsal saddle, more or 

 less oblique and rather deeply divided at the extremity into two subequal, 

 bifurcating and obtusely digitate terminal branches. The inferior lateral lobe 

 is as long as the lateral saddle, but a little narrower, and ornamented with 

 three variously digitate terminal branches, the middle one of which is longer 

 than the others, a little oblique and not exactly central. The ventral lobe is 

 small, being less than half as long, and scarcely' two-thirds as wide, as the 

 inferior lateral lobe, and provided with three nearly equal, spreading, digi- 

 tate, terminal brunches. Between the ventral lobe and the umbilical margin 

 there are two small auxiliary lobes, the first of which has two or three digi- 

 tations on each side ; while the second is nearly simple, or but slightly sinucti3 

 on the margins. 



In the number and arrangement of the lobes and saddles of its septa, as well 

 as in their mode of branching, this species agrees very nearly with A. Halli, 

 (Meek and Hayden, Proceed. Acad. Nut. Sci. Phila., March, 1856, p. 70.) It 

 has, however, one more lateral branch on each side of iis dorsal lobe, and one 

 less on each side of its superior lateral lobe, than A. Halli ; while all the di- 

 visions of its lobes and saddles are more spreading. Although so closely 

 allied in their internal characters, these two shells present marked differences 

 in form, as well as in their external markings, the species now under considera- 

 tion being much more ventricose and more coarsely ribbed than A. Halli. 



It agrees much more nearly in form with ^1. Barn^toni, Meek, (Prof. Hinds' 

 Report, Assiniboine and Saskatchewan Expl. Expedition, pi. 11, figs. 1 and 2.) 

 from far up north, on Mackenzie's River ; but differs in having a smaller and 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



more acutely conical umbilicus, and less broadly rounded dorsum. Its costae 

 are also more rounded, and it presents well marked diff..-rences in its septa. 



The only specimen of this species we have yet seen consists entirely of sep- 

 tate whorls, the non-septate outer portion having been broken away. It mea- 

 sures in its greatest diameter 4 inches, and 2o7 inches in breadth at the widest 

 part of the outer whorl. 



Named in honor of Lieut. John Mullan, U. S. Top. Engrs., in charge of the 

 Expedition for the location and construction of the Pacific Wagon Road. 



Locality and position. — Same as preceding. 



Genus NAUTILUS, Breynius. 

 Nautilus elegans, var. Nebkascensis. 



Nautilus elegans, Sowerby, 1816. Min. Conch., pi. 116. 

 Nautilus elegans, Mantell, 1822. Geol. Sussex, t. xx. fig. 

 Nautilus elegans, D'Orbigny, 1840. Palaeont. Franc. Ter. Cret., t. i. pi. 19, 

 Nautilus elegans, Sharpe, 1853. Foss. Mai. Chalk, pt. 1, Ceph. pi. 3, fig. 3, and pi. 

 4, fig. 1. Palaeoutographical Society. 



Shell globose, broadly rounded over the dorsum and sides; umbilicus en- 

 tirely closed ; volutions increasing rapidly in size, considerably wider trans- 

 versely than from the dorsal to the ventral side ; aperture transversely reniform 

 or sublunate, being deeply sinuous on the inner side for the reception of the 

 preceding turn ; margins of the septa lather abruptly- arched forward near the 

 umbilicus, and slightly backwards on the dorsal side, deeply concave on the 

 cuter side ; siphuncle located about its own breadth outside of the middle of 

 each septum. Surface of the body whorl ornamented by regular, flattened, 

 transverse costae about five times as broad as the grooves between. In crossing 

 over the dorsum, these costae all arch gracefully and deeply backwards parallel 

 to the broad dorsal sinus of the lip. Un the inner whorls, the costie become 

 obsolete or are only represented by rather distinct lines of growth. 



Length or greatest diameter, 3-90 inches; height, 2-82 inches; breadth, 3-40 

 inches. 



This shell agrees almost exactly, in form and surface markings, with Mr. 

 Sharpe's figures of Sowerby's species, to which we have referred it, and only 

 differs in having its siphuncle a little more nearly central and iis umbilicus 

 closed, apparently at all ages. According to Mr. Sharpe, the umbilicus of N. 

 elegans is closed in the young shell, but becomes a little open in the outer whorl 

 of large specimens. He also states that its siphuncle is located about half way 

 between the middle and the dorsal side of the septa, though in his figure on 

 plate 4 of his Monograph cited at the head of this description, it is represented 

 somewhat nearer the middle. Such small differences, however, we can scarcely 

 regard as being of specific importance, but, if fuller comparisons should prove 

 our shell to be distinct, it can retain the name of Nebrasccnsis. 



It is worthy of note that D'Orbigny's figures cited above represent a rather 

 distinctly less ventricose form, with a more narrowly rounded dorsum than 

 our Nebraska shell, or those figured by Mr. Sharpe. He also shows a distinct 

 longitudiual line on the middle of the dorsum (of an internal cast) not seen 

 on our specimen, nor on those figured in Mr. Sharpe's Monograph. 



Dr. Shumard has described, in vol. i. p. 590 of the Transactions of the St. 

 Louis Academy of Sciences, a similar species from the cretaceous rocks of 

 Texas. As he mentions, however, that the siphuncle of the Texas shell is 

 situated between the middle and the ventral side of the septa, and that the 

 height of its aperture is greater than its breadth, he doubtless has a distinct 

 species from N. elegans. So far as we know, this is the first time Sowerby's 

 species has been even doubtfully identified in America. 



Locality and position. — Same as preceding. 



186i.] 




2G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



LAMELLIBRANCHIA TA. 



Genus INOCERAMUS, Sowerby. 



Inoceramus undabundcs. 



Shell (left valve) obliquely rhombic-subovate, gibbous, anterior side very 

 short, obliquely truncated from the beak above, and rounding into the long 

 antero-basal margin ; base very prominent, and abruptly rounded a little 

 behind the middle, from which point its margin ascends obliquely forward 

 with a gently convex outline ; posterior side broadly rounded or subtruncate ; 

 dorsal outline sloping from the beaks at an angle of about 90" ; hinge appa- 

 rently short; beak moderately prominent, incurved, and directed a little 

 towards the front ; umbonal axis ranging at an angle of about 70 with the 

 hinge line ; surface ornamented by regular, distinct, concentric undulations, 

 which are (on the cast) subangular, and separated by shallow rounded depres- 

 sions ; shell structure coarsely fibrous near the hinge. (Right valve un- 

 known.) 



Height from the most prominent part of the base to the hinge, 3 inches ; 

 length at right angles to height, 3 inches ; convexity, 1-84 inches. 



The peculiar obliquely rhombic outline, rather gibbous form, and regular 

 undulations of this shell, will readily distinguish it from any other species 

 known to us. It is true, both the following species have the corresponding 

 valve more gibbous than this, but in those the greatest convexity is in the 

 umbonal region, while in this it is near the middle of the valve. In all other 

 respects they are remarkably unlike. 



Locality and position. — Chippewa Point, near Fort Benton, on the Missouri 

 River, from beds supposed to hold the position of Fort Benton Group of the 

 Nebraska Cretaceous section, 



Inocekamus exogyroides. 



Shell large ; left valve subcircular, its height being a little greater than its 

 length from the anterior to the posterior side, very gibbous ; buccal and anal 

 margins rounded, and forming with the base about three-fourths of a circle ; 

 cardinal border somewhat arched ; beak large, elevated, gibbous, distinctly 

 involuted and directed obliquely forward, so as to bring its point near the 

 anterior margin ; surface of cast smooth, or marked by obscure concentric 

 folds. (Right valve unknown.) 



Length from anterior to posterior margin, 5 inches; height, 5'50 inches; 

 convexity near 3 inches. 



We have not yet seen the right valve of this species, but judging from the 

 gibbous character and incurved beak of the left, it will probably be found to 

 be much more compressed, so as to make the shell very distinctly inequivalve. 

 The laterally curved beak and general form of the left valve give it much the 

 appearance of some species of Exogyra, when viewed on the inner side. Its 

 aperture is transversely oval, the height being to the length about as four to 

 five. Remaining portions of the shell about the hinge show it to have been 

 rather thick and distinctly fibrous. 



This species differs from an analogous form described by us from the same 

 position ? (and from near the same locality) under the name of /. umbonatus, 

 in being much more depressed, and in having its beak considerably less ele- 

 vated, as well as directed much more obliquely forward. In /. imho/iatus 

 (some fine specimens of which were brought in with the form under considera- 

 tion) the umbo of the left valve rises near one-half the entire height of the 

 shell above the hinge, while in the species we are here describing it extends 

 less than one-third the height of the shell above. The length of the valve 

 from the anterior to the posterior side is distinctly greater in proportion to its 

 height than in /. umbonatus, while the corresponding valve of the latter shell 

 is much more gibbous. We have before us a series of specimens belonging 

 to each of these forms, and find no difficulty whatever in separating them. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2t 



A careful examination of much better specimens of I. umbonatus, iu the col- 

 lections now before us, than that first described bj us, shows that form to be 

 even more closely allied to /. involutus of Sowerby than we had at first sup- 

 posed. As Sowerby's species holds a position, however, in the Upper Chalk, 

 and ours comes mingled with Lower Chalk types, it is probable a comparison 

 of perfect specimens of each would result ia the discovery of constant differ- 

 ences. 



Locality and position. — Same as last? 



ISOCERAMCS TEXriROSTRATUS. 



Left valve very gibbous, subquadrilateral in outline ; anterior side truncated 

 almost immediately in front of the beak, and rounding into the base below ; 

 ventral margin semielHptical in outline ; posterior side rounded, or sometimes 

 subtruncate above ; hinge straight, comparatively long, and rather finely 

 crenulated, there being about five crenulations in the space of 0*20 inch ; beak 

 very gibbous, pointed, slender, prominent, and distinctly incurved, — directed 

 obliquely forward so as to bring its point nearly over the anterior margin ; 

 surface (of internal cast) smooth over the gibbous umbonal region, but having 

 a few small and very obscure concentric undulations below the middle. (Right 

 valve unknown, but probably compressed.) 



Length, 2-10 inches; height from base to hinge, 1 "82 inches ; height from 

 base to top of umbo, 2-13 inches ; convexity, (left valve only,) 0*90 inch. 



This shell has a longer hinge and a more transverse form than any other 

 species known to us, having so prominent, slender, and incurved a beak. It 

 differs remarkably from the last, in the slendemess of its beak and less regu- 

 larly ventricose character of its left valve. Its umbonal region is perhaps 

 more gibbous than that of the last, though this gibbosity is more local and 

 abrupt. 



Locality and position. — Same as last. 



Genus VENILIA, Morton. 

 Vexilia Mortoxi. 



Shell transversely ohlong, or subrhombic in outline, gibbous, thick and 

 strong ; base nearly straight, but rounding up in front ; dorsal margin parallel 

 to the base, excepting behind, where it rounds into the anal margin ; anterior 

 side truncated immediately in front of the beaks ; posterior margin truncated 

 a little obliquely ; postero-basal extremity abruptly rounded or subangular ; 

 beaks located directly over the anterior margin, directed obliquely forward, 

 and rather distinctly incurved at the points, as in Isocardia ; posterior um- 

 bonal slopes forming a prominent oblique ridge from each beak to the postero- 

 basal extremity ; lunule and escutcheon impressed, but without distinctly 

 defined margins ; surface marked with strong lines and more or less distinct 

 concentric ridges of growth, which latter assume a regular arrangement on the 

 umbones. 



Length, 1"66 inches ; height, 1'40 inches ; breadth or convexity, 1-17 inches. 



This species is allied to Venilia Conradi of Morton, (Synop. Org. Rem. pi. 8, 

 fig. 1—2,) but differs, if Dr. Morton's figures are correctly drawn, in being 

 proportionally longer transversely, more nearly oblong in form and in having 

 its posterior margin more distinctly truncated, while its antero-ventral region 

 is less prominently rounded. Its dorsal margin is also more nearly horizontal, 

 and rounds less regularly into the truncated anal border. 



The genus Venilia was proposed by Dr. Morton, in 1834, for the reception 

 of a rather peculiar shell, which D'Orbigny afterwards referred to Cyprina. 

 We agree, however, with those authors who regard it as clearly distinct from 

 the typical forms of Cyprina, though it may not be generically distinct from a 

 few forms referred by some to that group. We have not had an opportunity 



1862.] 




28 PROCEEPINQS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



to see Dr. Morton's original specimen, but, judging from his figures and a 

 carefully drawn sketch of its hinge sent us by Mr. Gabb, it seems to us more 

 nearly allied to Ci/pricardia of Lamarck than to Cyprina. 



The only question in regard to the propriety of retaining Dr. Morton's name 

 arises from the fact that it had been previously (1S29) applied by Duponchel 

 to a group of lepidopterous insects. If Dupouchel's genus is a good one, we 

 think Morton's name for the group of shells to which the species under con- 

 sideration belongs should be changed, although we are aware many natural- 

 ists are inclined to admit the use of the same generic names in different de- 

 partments of Natural History. 



Locality and position. — Same as preceding. 



Genus PHOLADOMYA, Sowerby. 

 Pholadomya papyracea. 



Shell rather under medium size, extremely thin and fragile, transversely 

 subovate in outline, moderately convex in the anterior and umbonal regions, 

 cuneate and a little gaping behind ; outline of base regularly semiovate, its 

 most prominent part being somewhat in advance of the middle ; anterior side 

 short and rounded ; posterior margin more narrowly rounded ; hinge margin 

 straight, long, not inflected so as to form a distinct escutcheon ; beaks mode- 

 rately gibbous, rising little above the hinge, incurved and located near the 

 anterior extremity of the shell, but not terminal. Surface ornamented by 

 about twelve small radiating costse, which are interrupted by numerous small, 

 regularly arranged concentric ridges. The radiating costse are divided by the 

 concentric ridges, so as to present the appearance of rows of minute nodes 

 placed upon the latter. The surface markring are all distinctly impressed 

 upon the internal cast. 



Length, 1*16 inches ; height, 0"76 inch ; breadth or convexity, O'oo inch. 



This species seems to be closely allied to Pholadomya occidentalis of Morton, 

 (Synopsis Org. Rem. pi. viii. fig. 3,) but is much smaller, and differs in having 

 numerous regular concentric ridges, separated by furrows that completely 

 divide the radiating costs, which are less numerous and more regularly 

 arranged than on Morton's species. 



It also resembles P. ovulutn of Agassiz, (Etud. Crit. sur les Moll. Foss. tab. 

 ob, fig. 1 — 6,) an Oolitic species, but has a longer and straighter hinge margin, 

 and differs in being destitute of a distinctly defined depression along the 

 dorsal margin. Its concentric ridges likewise appear to differ in being more 

 regular and distinct. 



Locality and position. — Same as preceding. 



Monograph of the Species of SPH^RIUM of North and South America. 

 BY TEMPLE PRIME. 



(Continufd fiom page 409, Dec, 1S61.) 



15. Sph. triangulare. Say, 



Cyclas trianijidaris, Saj', New Harm. Dissem. 356, 1829. 



Animal not observed. Shell transversely oval, nearly equilateral, rather 

 full, anterior margin slightly distended, rounded, posterior somewhat abrupt, 

 nasal rounded ; beaks large, full, prominent ; lines of growth regular, epi- 

 dermis brownish ; hinge margin narrow, curved ; cardinal teeth very distinct, 

 assuming the shape of the letter V reversed ; lateral teeth prominent. 



Long. 9-16 ; lat. 7-16 ; diam. 4-16 inches. • 



Hah. N. America, in Mexico. (Cabinet Acad. Nat. Sci. Philada.) 



The specimens from which I have prepared this description were presented 

 to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia by Mrs. Say, as the Cyclas 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



triangularis, Say ; they may or may not be tme representatives of Say's 

 species. In many points tliey answer his description of the C. triangularis, 

 but at the same time I am not able to reconcile their shape, which is not more 

 triangular than that of any other species, with the name he has applied to 

 the species. Moreover, they bear a very strong resemblance to one of our 

 Northern Sphserium, the Sph. solidulum; they differ from it, however, in 

 being less heavily and more regularly striated, and in having more prominent 

 1>eaka. 



b. — Species with protuberant or calyculate beaks. 



16. Sph. elevatum, Hald. 



Cyclas elevata, Hald., Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Proc, i. 53, 1841. 

 C. pallida, DeCharp., MSS. 1S51. 

 Animal not observed. Shell ovate, orbicular, nearly spherical, cavity 

 large, equilateral, margins well rounded ; beaks 

 central, slightly inclined towards the anterior, lap- 

 ping over the outline of the shell, large, tumid, 

 approximate, calyculate, prominent ; hinge margin 

 slightly curved ; cardinal teeth united, prominent ; 

 lateral ones elongated ; large, valves very strong, 

 interior bluish ; surface smooth, striation light, 

 irregular ; color brownish olive, greatly varied by 

 zones of a lighter shade, a zone of bright yellow 

 bordering the inferior and part of the lateral margins. 

 • Long. 9-16 ; lat. 8-16 ; diam. 5-16 inches. 



Hab. N. America, at New Orleans, La., and in Florida and Alabama. 

 (Cabinets Acad. Nat. Sci. Philada., and Prime.) 



Remarkable for its transversely spherical shape, which renders it distinct 

 from all other species of this genus. It is much more solid than the generality 

 of calyculate species, the valves being as strong as those of any of the larger 

 species of the preceding group. 



The Cyclas pallida, the young of this species, is more delicate than the 

 adult ; it is a little less transversely spherical, the strife are lighter, and the 

 color is bright yellow. 



Prof. Haldeman's original specimen of the Cyclas elevata, from which 

 this desci-iption was prepared, and which is now in the cabinet of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences, though very perfect in appearance, comprised 

 but a single valve. 



This species seems to be very rare. I have never met with any other 

 specimens but the one in the cabinet of the Academy and those I have in 

 mine, — two specimens of the Cyclas pallida, derived from De Charpentier 

 himself, and a single valve from Florida. 



17. Sph. partumium. Say. 



Cyclas partumia, Say, Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., II. 2, 380, 1822. 



C. cornea, var. 2, Lam., An. s. vert. v. 558, 1818. 



C. orbicitlaria, Barrat, Amer. II. xlviii. 276, 1845. 



C. mirabilis, Prime, Bost. Proc. iv. 157, 1851. 



C. coerulea " loc. sub. cit. iv. 161, 1851. 



C. eburuea, Anthony, " " " iv. 279, 1852. 

 Animal usually white, in some varieties pink, syphonal tubes pink. Shell 

 rounded-oval, thin, fragile, pellucid, somewhat inflated, nearly equilateral ; 

 anterior margin very slightly distended, rounded ; posterior slightly abrupt ; 

 basal rounded ; beaks central, calyculate, approximate at apex ; striae so deli- 

 cate as hardly to be visible ; epidermis glossy, of a light greenish horn color, 

 with at times a zone of a diflferent shade on the basal margin ; valves delicate, 

 moderately convex, interior light blue ; hinge margin nearly straight, passing 

 1862.] 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



by a regular curve into the anterior margin, but curving suddenly behind so 

 as to form an obtuse angle, causing the posterior side to appear broader, thus 

 giving the shell a somewhat rhombiform appearance ; cardinal teeth strong, 

 assuming the shape of the letter V reversed ; lateral teeth very much 

 elongated. 



The young shell is more compressed than the adult ; it is usually light 

 yellow. 



Long. 8-16; lat. 7-16; diam. 516 inches. 



Hah. N. America, in the States of Maine, Vermont, Massachusetts, New 

 York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Ohio, S. Carolina, Georgia, Mississippi, 

 Alabama and Arkansas. (Cabinets Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Boston Soc. Nat. 

 Hist., Garden of Plants at Paris, Agassiz, Jay and Prime.) 



This species varies much according to the localities where it is found, which 

 accounts in part for the number of names it has received. The Cyclas 

 orbicularia, of which I have authentic specimens from Mr. Barrat, is a 

 genuine Sph. partiimium, without even any local modifications of shape. 

 The Cyclas m i r a b i 1 i s , from Georgia, is a small form of this species, and 

 the Cyclas c oe r ul e a differs from the type in being a little less inflated. The 

 Cyclas e b u r n e a , from Arkansas, varies from tke Northern Sph. p a r t u- 

 m i u m in being more compressed and a little more elevated. I do not think, 

 however, taking the difference of localities into consideration, that these are 

 characters sufficient to warrant retaining the Cyclas eburnea as a distinct 

 species. I had an opportunity while in Paris to assure myself that the variety 

 No. 2 of Cyclas cornea was a true Sph. partumium. 



This species is not only very widely distributed, but where it is found, it 

 occurs in large numbers. The only one of our Northern species to which it 

 bears much resemblance is the Sph. truncatum, and that is only in general 

 outline ; the Sph. partumium is much more inflated and transversely 

 more broad. 



18. Sph. Jayanum, Prime. 



Cjiclas Jayensis, Prime, Bost. Proc. iv. 157, 1851. 

 Animal not observed. Shell rhombic, nearly equilateral, moderately con- 

 vex, thin, fragile, somewhat translucent, drawn up to an angle towards the 

 hinge margin ; anterior and posterior margins very abrupt, inferior very 

 slightly curved ; beaks central, calyculate, approximate at apex ; hinge margin 

 considerably shorter than the basal margin, slightly curved ; cardinal teeth 

 distinct in the shape of the letter V reversed ; lateral teeth elongated ; valves 

 delicate, interior light blue ; striae hardly visible ; epidermis glossy, light 

 greenish horn color, with at times a zone of bright yellow on the inferior 

 margin. 



Long. 8-16 ; lat. 7-16 ; diam. 3-16 inches. 



Hab. N. America, in the region of Lake Superior? (Cabinets Agassiz, Jay, 

 Garden of Plants in Paris, and Prime.) 



This attractive and rare species is easily distinguished by its elevated shape 

 and by its abrupt lateral margins, which give it a somewhat triangular 

 appearance. It is related to the Sph. R y c k h o 1 1 i of Europe, from which 

 it differs however, in being more inflated, its beaks are less prominent, the 

 shell is more elevated, and its anterior margin is abrupt, whereas in Sph. 

 Ryckholti it is distended and angular. 

 19. Sph. subtransversum, Prime, Proo. Zool. xxviii. 322, 1860. 



Animal not observed. Shell small, transversely oblong, equilateral, trans- 

 lucent, fragile, compressed ; beaks central, large, calyculate ; striae very deli- 

 cate ; epidermis greenish yellow. 



Long. 3-10 ; lat. 2-10 ; diam. 1-10 inches. 



Hab. N. America, at Tabasco in Mexico. (Cabinet Cuming.) 



The only specimen I have seen of this species was sent to me for description 

 by Mr. Cuming. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



20. Sph. argentinum, D'Orbigny. 



Cyclas argentina, D'Orb., Mag. de Zool. 1835. Voy. en Amer. Murid. 

 5(58, pi. 83, f. 5—7, 1844. 



Animal not observed. Shell oval, small, translucent, compressed ; anterior 

 side short, somewhat angular, posterior side distended and truncated at the 

 end ; beaks calyculate ; strise delicate ; epidermis greenish brown ; v^alves 

 slight, interior bluish ; cardinal teeth united, lateral teeth hardly visible. 



Long. 5-16 ; lat. 4-16 inches. 



Hab. S. America, at Montevideo at the base of the Cerro. (Cabinet British 

 Museum.) 



It has not been my good fortune to meet with this species. M. D'Orbigny 

 says it bears some resemblance to the Cyclas caliculata, meaning thereby, 

 I presume, the shell now known to European conchologists under the name of 

 Sph. 1 a c u s t r e , Ferussac. 



21. Sph. t e n u e , Prime. 



Cyclas tenuis, Prime, Bost. Proc. iv. 161, 1851. 



Animal not observed. Shell small, transversely oblong, pellucid, mode- 

 rately full, subequilateral ; anterior and basal margins rounded, posterior 

 margin subabrupt; beaks nearly central, not prominent, calycnlate ; striations 

 very fine and regular, hardly perceptible ; epidermis glossy, light straw color ; 

 valves slight, interior straw color ; hiage margin short, narrow, nearly straight ; 

 cardinal teeth very diminutive, lateral teeth small, elongated. 



Long. 3-16; lat. 2-16; diam. 1-16 inches. 

 ■ Hab. N. America, in the Androscoggin, Maine. (Cabinet Prime.) 



This species, the smallest one known to inhabit the United States, was dis- 

 covered some years since by Mr. Girard, from whom I obtained my specimens, 

 the only ones I have met with. It may possibly be the young of some species, 

 but if so, it would be very difficult to say which ; setting aside its diminutive 

 size, it appears to have all the characteristics of a mature shell. In outline it 

 seems to be allied to the Sph. transversum; it is, however, more inflated, 

 less elongated, and its margins are more rounded. At first sight, it might 

 readily be mistaken for a Pisidium. 



22. Sph. transversum. Say. 



Cyclas transversa, Say, New Harm. Dissem. 2, 356, 1829. 

 C. detrunca a. Prime, Bost. Proc. iv. 155, 1851. 

 C. gracile, " loc. sub. cit. iv. 156, 1851. 



C. constricta, Anthony, " " " iv. 274, 1852. 



Animal white, syphonal tubes pink, foot white. Shell transversely oblong, 

 elongated, subinequilateral, translucent ; anterior side narrow ; anterior 

 margin rounded, posterior margin subtruncate, basal very much curved ; 

 beaks placed somewhat on the anterior side, large, calyculate, very much 

 raised above the outline of the shell ; strise very delicate ; epidermis greenish 

 yellow, of a darker shade at times on the region of beaks; valves slight, 

 interior bluish ; hinge margin very nearly straight, narrow ; cardinal teeth 

 compressed, in the shape of the letter V reversed, and very much expanded ; 

 lateral teeth slightly elongated. 



Long. 10-16 ; lat.' 7-16 ;''diam. 4-16 inches. 



Hab. N. America, in the States of New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Ken- 

 tucky and Arkansas. (Cabinets Jay and Prime.) 



This large and delicate species is remarkable for its very transverse shape 

 and for the narrowness of the anterior extremity as compared to the posterior. 

 The form of the shell recalls that of many of the small species from the West 

 Indies and South America. It is found in considerable abundance. 



The Cyclas detruncata does not differ sufficiently from the type to con- 

 stitute even a variety. The Cyclas g r a c i I i s is a large varietv of Sph. trans- 



1862.] 




6Z PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



versum, it is a little more inflated and of a darker color. The Cyclas con- 

 stricta is nothing more than a difFormed specimen of Say's species, having a 

 perpendicular furrow up the centre of each valve, caused by some accident 

 occurring to the shell during its growth. 



23. Sph. Bahiense, Spix. 



Ct/clas Bahiensis, Spix, Tert. Braz. 32, pi. xxv. f. 5, 6, 1827. 



C. maculata, Anton, (non Morelet,) Wiegm. Archiv, 284, 1837. 



Pisum maculatum, Desh., Brit. Mus. Cat. 283, 1854. 



P. Bahiense " loc. sub. cit. 284, 1854. 



Musculmm Bahiense, Adams, rec. gen. ii. 451, 1858. 



M. maculatum, " loc. aub. cit. ii. 451, 1858. 



Animal not observed. Shell very small, rounded-oval, inflated, inequi- 

 lateral ; anterior margin narrow, curved ; posterior margin broad, subtruncate : 

 inferior margin curved ; beaks inclined towards the anterior, large, prominent, 

 calyculate ; valves slight, interior dark yellow, irregularly mottled with dark 

 reddish spots ; lines of growth very fine ; epidermis yellowish brown, with 

 irregular spots of dark purple ; hinge margin very narrow, nearly straight : 

 cardinal teeth small; lateral teeth comparatively strong, the posterior one 

 much the longer. 



Long. 5-32; lat. 2-16; diam. 3-32 inches. 



Hah. S. America, at Bahia in Brazil. (Cabinets Jay, Prime and others.) 

 This, the smallest species of Sphserium, has the peculiar appearance cha- 

 racteristic of the West Indian and South American shells of this genus. It 

 does not seem to be uncommon. Some authors, led away by its diminutive 

 size, have committed the error, as may be seen by the above synonymy, of 

 placing it under the head of Pisidium. I have never seen the Cyclas macu- 

 lata of Anton, (non Morelet,) but have every reason to believe, from the 

 description given of it, that it does not differ materially from this species. In 

 outline it is somewhat similar to the Sph. B a r b a d e n s e ; it is, however, 

 much smaller, less inflated, and the beaks are much more raised. Compared 

 to the S]?h. meridionale. Nobis, and Sph. maculatum, Morelet, it is 

 smaller, more inflated, and the margins are more rounded. 



24. Sph. Barbadense, Prime, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1861. 

 Animal not observed. Shell small, rounded-oval, ventricose, subequi- 



lateral, delicate; anterior side a little the shorter and narrower; margins 

 generally rounded ; beaks slightly inclined towards the anterior, nearly cen- 

 tral, small, calycalate, approximate at apex, at times eroded ; stria? coarse for 

 the size of the shell, though not very distinct ; epidermis dark greenish- brown ; 

 valves slight, very convex ; cardinal teeth very small ; lateral teeth strong, 

 very much drawn up and sliorter than they xasually are in other species. 



Long. \ ; lat. 1-5 ; diam. 5-32 inches. 



Hab. Barbadoes, West Indies. (Cabinet Prime.) 



I have but one specimen of this species, which seems to be closely allied to 

 the Sph. Bahiense of Brazil ; it is, however, much larger, more globose, 

 and its beaks are not as much raised. 



25. Sph. modioliforme, Anton. 



Cyclas modioliformis, Anton, Wiegm. Archiv, 284, 1837. 



Pisidiu7n (liaphanum, Hald., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., i. 53, 1841. 



Fisu7n modioliforme, Deshayes, Brit. Mus. Cat. 283, 1854. 



Pisidium Moquinianum, Bourgt., Amen. i. 61, pi. 3, f. 13 — 17, 1855. 



Cyclas Moquiniana, Gassies, Pisid. S. O. f. 9, 1855. 



C. striatella, Ferussac, Museum of Paris. 



C littoralis " Collect. Micbaud. 



C. Venezuelensis, Prime, Museum at Leyden. 



Musculium modioliforme, Adams, rec. gen. ii. 451, 1858. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



Animal not observed. Shell small, ovate-oblong, moderately inflated, ine- 

 quilateral, translucent ; anterior and basal margins rounded, posterior some- 

 what distended and subtruncate ; beaks inclined towards the anterior, promi- 

 nent, calyculate ; valves slight, convex ; epidermis dark yellow, irregularly 

 spotted with a darker color ; striae hardly visible ; teeth very small ; hinge 

 margin somewhat curved, very narrow. 



Long. 5-16; lat. 3-16; diam. 5-32 inches. 



Hub. S. America, in Brazil and Venezuela. (Cabinets Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., Bourguignat, Gassies, Museum of Paris, Michaud, and Museum at 

 Leyden.) 



The specimen from which this description was prepared— the original shell 

 from which Mr. Haldeman described the Pisid. diaphanum — is in the 

 Cabinet of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. It was dis- 

 covered in the interior of a large Ampullaria from Brazil. I have never seen 

 the Cyclas modioliformis or the Pisid. Moquinianum, but judging 

 from their descriptions and from the figure of the latter, I have little doubt 

 but that they belong to the same species. I have had occasion to examine 

 the Cyclas stria tell a, littoralis and V e n e z la e 1 e n s i s personally. 



The Sph. modioli forme seems to be rare. It bears some resemblance 

 to the Sph. meridionale, but it differs from it in being more inliated and 

 of a lighter color. 



26. Sph. meridionale, Prime, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., ISGl. 

 Animal not observed. Shell small, transversely-oblong, compressed, deli- 



-oate, inequilateral ; anterior side narrow, shorter ; anterior margin somewhat 

 angular, posterior subabrupt, basal slightly rounded ; beaks inclined towards 

 the anterior, small, calyculate, approximate at apex; valves slight, com- 

 pressed, striae very regular and delicate, hardly perceptible ; epidermis yel- 

 lowish brown, irregularly mottled with large blotches of a much darker color; 

 hinge margin very slightly rounded, narrow, much shorter than the basal 

 margin ; cardinal teeth diminutive ; lateral teeth slight, the posterior tooth 

 much the more elongated. 



Long. 5 ; lat. 1-5 ; diam. 2-16 inches. 



Hah. N. America, at Panama. (Cabinet Prime.) 



This species, of which I have never seen but one specimen, is easily dis- 

 tinguished by its very inequilateral and compressed shape. Compared to the 

 Sph. m acu 1 a tu m , it is larger, its posterior margin is less abrupt, and its 

 lateral teeth are larger. 



27. Sph. maculatum, Morelet. 



Cyclas maculaia, Morelet, Test. nov. Insul. Cub., etc., pt. 2d, 25, 1851. 



Animal not observed. Shell small, transversely-oblong, rhombic, elongated, 

 inequilateral, compressed, delicate ; anterior side much the narrower, slightly 

 rounded ; posterior side very broad ; posterior margin abrupt, forming a 

 straight line from the liinge to the base of the shell ; inferior margin nearly 

 straight; valves slight, very little convex; beaks small, calyculate, inclined 

 towards the anterior side ; striae not perceptible ; epidermis dark yellowish- 

 brown, irregularly mottled with spots of a much darker color ; hinge margin 

 nearly straight ; cardinal teeth very small ; lateral teeth strong, elongated. 



Long. 4-16; lat. 3-16; diam. 2-16 inches. 



Hab. N. America, in Yucatan. (Cabinets Morelet, Jay and Prime.) 



A rare species ; the only specimens I have met with were kindly presented 

 to me by the original describer. It is easily distinguished from all other 

 species of Sphaerium by the very great disproportion which exists between 

 the lateral margins. 



18tJ2.] 3 




34: PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



28. Sph. Veatleyi, C. B. Adams. 



Cyclas Veatlei/i, C. B. Adams, Contrib. Conch. 44, 1849. 

 Pisidium " Petit, II. Conch, ii. 421, 1851. 

 Pisum " Desh., Brit. Mus. Cat. 283, 1854. 



MuscuUum " Adams, rec. gen. ii. 452, 1858. 

 Animal not observed. Shell small, transversely elongated, inequilateral, 

 compressed; anterior and inferior margins rounded; posterior margin sab- 

 truncate ; beaks situated towards the anterior side and inclined in that 

 direction, small, prominent, calyculate ; valves slight, interior irregularly 

 spotted with dark blotches ; strise regular, coarse for the size of the shell ; 

 epidermis horn color with a tinge of brown ; hinge margin nearly straight : 

 cardinal teeth small but distinct, placed in the shape of the letter V" reversed ; 

 lateral teeth well developed, elongated. 

 Long. 3-16 ; lat. 2-16 ; diam. 1-16 inches. 



Hab. N. America, in the Island of Jamaica. (Cabinets Jay and Prime.) 

 This rare species, of which I received specimens from the late Prof. Adams, 

 is somewhat allied to the Sph. P o r t o r i c e n s e ; it is, however, smaller, more 

 delicate, more elongated, the valves are less full, the beaks less large, and the 

 hinge in every way more slight. 



29. Sph. Portoricense, Prime, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1861. 

 Animal not observed. Shell small, transversely elongated, rhombic, equi- 

 lateral, slightly compressed ; margins generally straight, in especial the pos- 

 terior margin ; beaks central, slightly inclined towards the anterior side, 

 calyculate, approximate at apex ; strise regular, quite heavy considering the 

 size of the shell ; epidermis light brownish-yellow ; cardinal teeth strong ; 

 lateral teeth strong, very much drawn up ; valves solid, very little convex ; 

 the interior, and at times the exterior, irregularly spotted with a few dots of 

 very dark color. 



Long. ^ ; lat. 1-5 ; diam. | inches. 



Hab. Portorico, West Indies. (Cabinets Swift and Prime.) 

 The specimens from which this description were prepared were kindly fur- 

 nished to me by Mr. Swift of St. Thomas. In proportion to its size this 

 species is quite robust. It is different from the generality of the West Indian 

 and South American Sphieria by its sulcations, which are regular and deep. 

 In shape and appearance it recalls the young of Sph. sulcatum. It is 

 allied to Sph. Veatleyi in outline, but otherwise it is diflferent, in being 

 heavier and of a larger size. 



30. Sph. s e e u r i s , Prime. 



Cijclas seciiris, Prime, Bost. Proc. iv. 160, 1851. Ann. N. Y. Lyceum, 



v. 218, pi. vi. 1851. 

 a cardissa. Prime, Bost. Proc. iv. 160, 1851. 

 C. crocea, Lewis, loc. sub. cit. v. 25, 1S54. 

 Animal pinkish, syphons of the same color. Shell rhombic-orbicular, ven- 

 tricose, subequilateral, both sides of very nearly the same length ; anterior 

 margin a little curved ; posterior margin abrupt, forming an obtuse angle with 

 the hinge margin ; basal margin much longer than the superior margin, 

 rounded; beaks large, calyculate, slightly inclined towards the anterior, very 

 approximate at apex ; valves slight, very convex, especially in the region of 

 the umbones ; strise delicate, regular, hardly perceptible : epidermis glossy in 

 some cases, very variable in color, but generally of a greenish-horn, at times 

 of a brilliant yellow or straw color ; hinge margin curved, narrow : cardinal 

 teeth very small, united at base ; lateral teeth slight, elongated, very narrow. 

 Long. 6-16 ; lat. 5-16 ; diam. 4-16 inches. 



Hab. N. America, in the States of Massachusetts, Vermont, Pennsylvania 

 and New York. (Cabinets Jay, Lewis and Prime.) 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



Found plentifully at Cambridge, Mass. I cannot see diflFerences sufficient be- 

 tween the Sph. s e c u r i s and the Cyclas cardissa to separate them ; the 

 C^'clas cardissa is more globose, transversely shorter, more elevated, but 

 still intermediate forms uniting the two are so frequent that it is not possible 

 that they should form distinct species. 



The Cyclas c r o c e a , Lewis, is a young of this species. 



Compared to the Sph. sphjericum, the Sph. securis is more equilateral, 

 the beaks are less tumid and less inclined, the sides are less rounded, and the 

 hinge margin is less curved. 



31. Sph. rosaceum, Prime. 



Ctjclas rosacea, Prime, Bost. Proc. Iv. 155, 1851. 



Animal not observed. Shell small, rounded-oval, fragile, translucent, sub- 

 equilateral, somewhat compressed, margins generally rounded ; beaks nearly 

 central, slightly inclined towards the anterior, calyculate, approximate at 

 apex ; valves very slight, a little convex in the region of the umbones ; striae 

 regular, hardly visible ; epidermis shiny, reddish-brown ; hinge margin nearly 

 straight, delicate, narrow ; cardinal teeth nearly obsolete, lateral teeth slight, 

 elongated. 



Long. 4-16 ; lat. 3-16 ; diam. 5-32 inches. 



Hah. N. America, in the Schuylkill River. (Cabinet Prime.) 



This species, which is very rare, the only specimens known to me being 

 those in my collection, is not very liable to be confounded with others. Com- 

 pared to the Sph. c c i d e n t a 1 e, it is less full, the beaks are more prominent 

 .and are calyculate. 



32. Sph. sphaericum, Anthony. 



Cyclas sphcerica, Anthony, Bost. Proc. iv. 275, 1852. 



Animal not observed. Shell globose, subequi- 

 lateral, transversely oval ; anterior side narrow, 

 distended, rounded ; inferior margin rounded ; pos- 

 terior margin subabrupt ; beaks inclined towards 

 the anterior, large, prominent, calyculate ; valves 

 slight, very convex, interior blue ; stride fine and 

 regular ; epidermis greenish ; hinge margin much 

 curved ; cardinal teeth strong, united at base and 

 disposed in the shape of the letter Y reversed ; 

 lateral teeth prominent, very distinct, rather short. 

 Long. 5-16; lat. 9-32; diam. 3-16 inches. 



Hab. N. America, in the Black River, Ohio. (Cabinets Anthony and 

 Prime.) 



Very rare ; I have never seen any specimens of this species but those in 

 Mr. Anthony's collection and in mine. Compared to the Sph. rosaceum, 

 it is less equilateral, more inflated and the margins are less rounded. 



33. Sph. truncatum, Linsley. 



Cyclas calyculata, C. B. Adams, Amer. II., xi. 277, 1841. 

 " truncata, Linsley, Amer. II., N. Ser., vi. 234, f. 3, 1848. 

 " pellucida, Prime, Boston Proc, iv. 277, 1852. 



Animal not observed. Shell rhombic-orbicular, lenticular, thin, pellucid, 

 very slightly inilated, subequilateral ; anterior side narrower ; anterior mar- 

 gin rounded ; posterior margin nearly a straight line ; basal somewhat curved ; 

 beaks central, calyculate, approximate at apex ; strise very delicate ; epider- 

 mis glossy, light greenish horn color ; valves slight, very little convex ; inte- 

 rior light blue ; hinge margin very nearly straight ; very narrow ; cardinal 

 teeth diminutive, united at base ; lateral teeth slight, narrow, not much 

 elongated. 



1862.] 




36 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Long. 6-16 ; lat. 5-16 ; diam. 5-32 inches. 



Hah. N. America, in the States of Maine, Vermont, Maasachnsetts, Con- 

 necticut, New York and Ohio. (Cabinets Linsley, Gould and Prime.) 



The specimens from which this description was prepared, the same ones 

 from which Dr. Gould described the original Cyclas truncata, are pre- 

 cisely similar to those the late Prof. Adams sent to me labelled Cyclas caly- 

 culata, from Vermont, and which I described, in 1&52, under the name of 

 Cyclas pellucid a. This specicies is undoubtedly very closely allied to 

 the Sph. lacustre, Ferussac (Cyclas calyculata of authors) of Europe, 

 but still the differences are patent enough to authorize its being retained as 

 distinct. Compared to the Sph. par t u miu m, the Sph. truncatum is 

 less inflated, transversely less broad, the posterior margin is more abrupt and 

 the binge slighter. The young, more tumid than the adult, is of a lemon 

 yellow. Found not uncommonly. 



34. Sph. lenticula, Gould. 



Lucina lenticula, Gould, Bost. Proc, lii. 256, 1850. 



Cyclas lenticula, Gould, Atlas Explor. Exped., pi. 36, f. 528. 



Animal not observed. Shell rhombic-orbicular, lenticular, thin, pellucid, 

 very slightly inflated, nearly equilateral ; anterior side narrower ; anterior 

 margin curved ; posterior margin abrupt, inferior rounded ; beaks central, 

 calycxilate, approximate at apex ; strife hardly visible ; epidermis glossy, 

 light greenish horn color ; valves delicate, a little convex towards the region 

 of the umbones ; interior light blue ; hinge margin nearly straight, narrow ; 

 cardinal teeth hardly visible, united at base ; lateral teeth slight, narrow, not 

 much elongated. 



Long. 7-16 ; lat. 6-16 ; diam. 3-16 inches. 



(Cabinets Gould, Anthony and Prime.) 



Hab. N. America, in Carson River, California. 



This species, of which I obtained specimens from Dr. Gould, is so similar 

 in nearly every respect to the Sph. truncatum, that it is very diflScult to tell 

 them apart. The valves of the Sph. lenticula are perhaps a little more 

 convex as they approach the region of the beaks, and the hinge margin a 

 little more curved and less narrow. The young shell is of the same color as 

 the adult, whereas, with Sph. truncatum, the young is of a lighter color. 



Fossil Species. 



35. Sph. recticardinale, Meek and Hayden, Ac. N, S. Phil., Proc, 176, 



1860. 



Shell of medium size, transversely subelliptical, rather compressed, very 

 thin ; anterior side rounded ; base forming a regular semielliptic curve ; pos- 

 terior extremity obliquely subtruncate above and rather narrowly rounded 

 below ; cardinal margin long and straight ; beaks very small, compressed and 

 projecting but slightly above the hinge, located nearly half way between the 

 middle and the anterior end ; surface marked by moderately distinct, irregular 

 lines of growth. 



Long. 0-55 ; lat. 0-36; diam. 0-24 inch. 



Hab. Near the mouth of Grand River, on the Upper Missouri, Nebraska, 

 U. S. of America. Tertiary Formation. 



36. Sph. planum. Meek and Hayden, Ac. N. S. Phil., Proc, 175, 1860. 

 Shell rather small, broad oval or subcircular, much compressed ; extremi- 

 ties more or less regularly rounded, the posterior margin being sometimes 

 faintly subtruncate ; base semioval in outline ; cardinal margin rounding 

 gradually from near the middle ; beaks very small, compressed, and scarcely 

 extending beyond the hinge margin, nearly central ; surface marked by fine, 

 irregular, obscure concentric striae. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



37 



Long. 0-33 ; lat. 0-32 ; diatn. 0-08 inch. 



Hah. Near the mouth of Grand River, on the Upper Missouri, Nebraska, 

 U. S. of America. Tertiary formation. 



37. Sph. formosum, Meek and Hayden. 



Cyclasformosa, M. & H., Ac. N. S. Phil., Proc, 115, 185 13. 

 " fragilis, M. & H., loc. sub. cit., 115, 1856. 



Shell small, oval, oblique, scarcely ventricose ; cardinal margin straight ; 

 buccal end rounded ; ami extremity obliquely truncate ; basal margin semi- 

 elliptical or broadly rounded ; beaks obtuse, tumid, rising somewhat above 

 the hinge, nearly touching, placed a little in advance of the middle ; surfiice 

 ornamented by very fiae, regular, distinct, concentric wrinkles. 



Long. "17 ; lat. •OS ; diam. '14 inch. 



Hab. Three miles above Fort Uuion, Nebraska, U. S of America. Ter- 

 tiary Formation. 



38. Sph. subellipticum. Meek and Havden. 



Cyclas subelliptica, M. & H., Ac. N. S.'Phil. Proc, 115, 1856. 



Shell small, elliptical-ovate, somewhat ventricose, thin and fragile ; pos- 

 terior end narrower than the anterior, both narrowly rounded ; base semi- 

 elliptical or semiovate ; cardinal bordei- apparently rounding gradually to 

 both extremities ; beaks not much elevated, pointed, incurved, not oblique, 

 located near the middle ; surface indistinctly marked with lines of growth. 



Long. -24 ; lat. •14 inch. 



Hab. Three miles above Fort Union, Nebraska, U. S. of America. Ter- 

 tiary Formation. 



" The beaks are so near the middle, and curved so nearly at right angles to 

 the longitudinal diameter of the shell, that it is not easy to determine, espe- 

 cially from the examination of mutilated specimens, which is the posterior or 

 which the anterior end. As we have only seen imperfect specimens, we are 

 not sure the surface markings are indistinct on unworn shells." — M. & H. 



The following shells^ known under the name of Cyclas, must be excluded 

 from the list of American species of Sphserium, in some cases because they 

 have been improperly placed in this genus, and in others, because no descrip- 

 tion has been published: — 



Cyclas aequalis, Rafinesque, is Pisid. Virginicum. 



" alt ills, Anthony, is Pisid. compressum. 



" A m eri c an a, Christof. and .Tan. Undescribed. 



' * C a r^o 1 i n i a n a, Bos., is Cyrena Caroliniensis. 



" Chilensis, D'Orbigny, is Pisid. Chilense. 



" clandestina. Da Costa, is a marine shell. 



" d e n s a t a, D'Orbigny, (fossil,) is Cyrena densata. 



" d u b i a. Say, is Pisid. Virginicum. 



" fluviatilis, Bosc, is a Corbicula. 



" Fontaineii, D'Orbigny, is Cyrena Fontaineii. 



" hammalis, Rafin., is a Corbicula. 



" 1 i m o s a, D'Orbigny, is Corbicula limosa. 



" m a r i t i m a, D'Orbigny, is Cyrena Cubensis. 



" minor, C. B. Adams, is Pisid. abditum. 



" nitida, Adams & Mighl., is Pisid. Adamsi. 



" ovata, Lewis. Undescribed. 



" Paranensis, D'Orbigny, is Corbicula Paranensis. 



" pygmea, C. B. Adams, is Pisid. Jamaicense. 



" variegata, D'Orbigny, is Corbicula limosa. 



" Virginica, Ferussac, is Pisid. Virginicum. 

 1862.J 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Note on the Classification of CERAMBYCID^, with descriptions of new species. 

 BY JOHN L. LE CONTE, M. D. 



Since the publication of my essaj^ on the Classification of our Cerambycidae, 

 id the Journal of the Academy, many species have been added to ihe literature 

 of our fauna; and in restudying the material in my collection, I have noticed 

 some characters not yet employed, which seem to render the definition and 

 classification of the tribes more perfect. The general features of the arrange- 

 ment proposed by me in the essay above mentioned have been adopted in many 

 of the works recently published, but the results have not been improved by any 

 important changes of system or characters. 



A very excellent application of the system to the Cerambycidse of the entire 

 globe has been made by Mr. James Thomson in hi? work entitled " Essai d'une 

 Classification de la Famille des Cerambycides ;" the order of arrangement 

 adopted by him is different from that used in my paper ; commencing with the 

 highest form, the Lamiidse, he ends with the Prionidae. The arrangement is 

 probably more convenient than mine, but it is impossible to preserve even the 

 most important affinities in a linear form The tables given both by hira and 

 myself exhibit perfectly the relations of the larger divisions to each other and 

 to other families. 



The important character to which I wish to call attention in the present note 

 is the granulation of the eyes. In certain tribes (e. g. Clytus) the lenses are 

 exceedingly small, in others (e. g. Elaphidion) they are much larger: in the 

 former case the eyes are said to be finely, and in the latter, coarsely granulated. 

 This character is also observed in the Lamiidae, and in both instances serves 

 to define well marked tribes with greater ease and distinctness than any other 

 character which has been observed. 



Using this observation, to perfect our tables of tribe?, (or groups, as I pre- • 

 viously called them,) we obtain the following result. 



LAMIIDiE. 



I. Humeri rounded, wings wanting ; (anterior coxal cavities closed, either 



rounded or angulated ; eyes somewhat coarsely granulated :) — Monilema, &c. 

 Michthysoma. 



II. Humeri distinct : — 



A. Eyes coarsely granulated: 



a. Anterior coxal cavities rounded, closed : — Acanthoderus, JSdilis, «&c. ; 

 Liopus, Leptostylus, Dectes, &c. 



b. Anterior coxal cavities angulated, closed: — Pogonocherus, Eupo- 

 gonius, &c. ; Oncideres, Mesosa, &c. ; Monohammus, Goes, &c. ; Pty- 

 chodes, Dorcaschema, &c. 



B. Eyes finely granulated : 



a. Anterior coxal cavities angulated, closed behind. 

 Front large, flat, frontal suture concave: — Saperda. 



Front convex, frontal suture stiaight: — Tetraopes, Oberea, &c. 



b. Anterior coxal cavities open behind: — Dysphaga. 



CERAMBYCIDJE. 

 No change is proposed in the Lepturini or Spondylini; the eyes are finely 

 granulated in all of our genera except Centrodera Lee. The remainder 

 of the subfamily may be arranged thus: — 

 I. Anterior coxal cavities angulated, closed behind ; (eyes finely granulated): — 



Heliomanes, Stenopterus. 

 IF. Anterior coxal cavities rounded; maxilla; elongated, maxillary palpi short : 

 (eyes finely granulated.) 



Anterior coxal cavities closed behind : — Callichroma. 

 Anterior coxal cavities open behind : — Rhopalophorus. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



III. Anterior coxal cavities rounded, open behind; maxillse short, labial palpi 



nornoal. 



A. Eyes coarsely granulated : — Distenia, Eburia, &c. ; Elaphidion, &c.; 



Ibidion. 



B. E^'es finely granulated : 

 Front short, oblique; 



Femora slender, clavate : — Ancylocera. 



Femora not clavate: — Arhopalus, Stenosphenus, Mannophorus, &c. ; 



Megaderus, Dendrobias, Trachyderes, Stenaspis, &c. ; Tylosis, Cros- 



sidius, &c. 

 Front large, quadrate, vertical : 



Femora not clavate : — Tragidion, Purpuricenus. 

 Femora very clavate : — Clytus, Euderce?. 



IV. Anterior coxal cavities angulated, open behind; maxilUe short, palpi 



normal. 



A. Anterior coxEe not transverse, eyes coarsely granulated : 



Femora slender at base, suddenly clavate: — Obrium, &c. 

 Femora gradually clavate : — Sclerocerus, Dryobius, Gracilia, Smodi- 

 cum, Atimia, Opsimus. 



B. Anterior coxae transverse : 



a. Eyes finely granulated : 

 Femora not clavate : — Rosalia. 



Femora slender at base, almost suddenly clavate: — Callidium. &c. 

 Femora gradually but strongly thickened : — Tetropiura, Asemum. 



b. Eyes coarsely granulated : — Criocephalus. 



Description of new species. 



1 . ^dilis o b 1 i q u u s , elongatus, cinereo-pubescens, nigro- variegatus, ely- 

 tris costis tribus nigro-tesselatis parura elevatis, fasciisque duabus obliquis nigris 

 ornatis, profunde minus parce punctatis. Long. -45 — -53. 



Kansas, New Mexico, Arizona and California. Of the same shape as our 

 Eastern ^. o b s o 1 e t u s, but readily distinguished by the less distant punctures 

 of the elytra and the three elevated costae ; the 3d, 4th and 5th joints of the 

 antenna; are clothed beneath with dense, short, very fine hair, as in J5. o b 3 o- 

 1 e t u s. 



2. Dectes texanus, elongatus, niger, dense cinereo-pubescens, thorace 

 Idtitudine fere longiore, spina baud divergente, lineam lateris recte continu- 

 ante. Long. SI. 



Texas, one specimen. This species resembles D. spinosus, {Lamia spi- 

 nosa Say,) but is more slender, and the lateral .spines near the base of the 

 thorax do not diverge from the straight line of the sides. 



I erroneously described the anterior coxal cavities of D. s p i n o s u s as being 

 open behind; they are in reality closed, though much more narrowly than is 

 usual in this tribe. Thomson (loc. cit. 14) seems to have considered this 

 insect as Hetoemis c i n e r ea Lee, (^juglandis Hald.,) which belongs to a very 

 different genus, allied to Dorcaschema. 



3. Liopus regularis, elongatus, depressus, niger, pube cinerea brevis- 

 sima dense vestitus, thorace macilis rotundatis 4 quadratim positis, elytris 

 utrinque 2, 2, 1, 1 rotundatis nigerrimis ornatis; antennis, ore. feraoribusque 

 fulvis, his apice nigris; elytris parce subtiliter punctatis apice roiundatis, 

 thorace spina laterali valde divergente. Long. -27. 



Ohio ; Mr. Ulke. This beautiful species is of the same form as L. s y m m e t- 

 r i c u s , but the lateral spine of the thorax is longer and more diverging. 



4. Pogonocherus n u b i 1 u s, nigro-piceus, nitidus, pube brevi densa cinerea 

 irregulariter adspersus, thorace latitudine sesqui breviore, confertim punctato, 



18C2.] 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



lateribus spina acuta armatis, elytris antice sat dense jjrosse punctatis, apice 

 rotundatis ; antennis annularis, corpore patilo longioribus. Long. -35. 



Northern New York, on bass-wood ; Mr. Ashton. This species differs in 

 appearance from the others of the genus, and resembles in form a small Gra- 

 phisurus ; but the anterior coxal cavities are very distinctly angulated ex- 

 ternally. 



5. Monohammus o c u I a t u s, niger, pube brevi pallida parce irroratu3,thorace 

 confertim rugoso et punctato, latitudioe paulo breviore, spina laterali acuta, 

 elytris rude punctatis, macula rotundata alra utrinque pone medium ornatis. 

 Long. -42. 



Racine, Wisconsin; Dr. J. P. Kirtland. A very distinct and beautiful little 

 species. The antennae are nearly twice as long as the body. 



6. Monoliammus ir armoratus, Lamia marmoraia Randall ; Monohammus 

 fautor Lee. 



This synonym is determined by reference to the original specimen. 



7. Tetrops jucunda, elongata, nigra, nitlda, pube erecta nigra longa 

 vestita, capite thoraceque coccineis, hoc latitudine longiore parce punctulato, 

 antice posticeque vage transversira impresso, macula dorsali ovali nigra ornato, 

 elytris grosse subseriatim punctatis; pedibus totis nigris. Long. -33. 



Middle States. Larger than T. monostigma, and easily known by the 

 black legs. 



8. Leptura ruiibasis, elongata, nigra, subtiliter cinereo-pubescensj 

 capite thoraceque confertissime punctatis, hoc latitudine longiore, antrorsum 

 sensira angustato, lateribus modice rotundatis, cinereo-pruinosis, angulis pos- 

 ticis parvis acutis, elytris fere parallelis apice rotundatis, antice fortiter, pos- 

 tice subulius punctatis, antennis fuscis articulo Imo rufo, pedibus rufis, tarsis 

 nigris ; libiis posticis femorumque apice nonnunquam nigris. Long. '25 — -30. 



Hudson's Bay Territory, about Methy Lake; Mr. R. Kennicott. Of the same 

 size and form as L. subargentata Kirby, but differs by the red color of the 

 legs and base of antennae. In one specimen the hind tibia; and the outer fourth 

 of tbe hind thighs are black; in all the others seen the thighs and tibiae are 

 entirely red, and the tarsi alone dark. 



9. Leptura saucia, elongata nigra, capite thoraceque dense punctulatis 

 fulvo pubescentibus, hoc fulvo, macula magna dorsali nigricante, latitudine 

 paulo breviore, convexo, antrorsum angustato, angulis posticis parvis acutis, 

 elytris parallelis fortiter i)ostice subtilius punctatis, breviter griseo-pubes- 

 centibus, apice rotundatis; antennis pedibusque nigris, femoribus anticis, 

 niediorumque basi rufo-testaceis. Long. -25. 



Middle States. Allied to L. r u f i co 1 1 i s &?/, but, besides the differences in 

 color, the thorax is more finely and densely punctulate than iathat species. 



10. Leptura ruficeps, elongata nigra, parce griseo-pnbescens, capite 

 obscure sanguineo, thoraceque dense punctulatis, hoc latitudine paulo longiore, 

 antrorsum angustato, lateribus late rotundatis, angulis posticis parvis acutis, 

 elytris parallelis, fortiter, postice subtilius punctatis, apice rotundatis; antennis 

 nigris, pedibus anticis rufis, posterioribus nigris. femoribus mediis basi rufis. 

 Long. -27. 



One specimen, upper Georgia. This species belongs to the same division as 

 the two preceding. The front tibiae and tarsi are slightly fuscous. 



11. Centrodera sublineata, fusca, sordide pubescens, thorace confertim 

 punctato, linea angusta dorsali Itevi, antice posticeque constricto, apice 

 angustioie, lateribus medio obtuse angulatis, elytris thorace sesqui latioribus, 

 parallelis apice rotundatis, sat dense punctatis, sulcis obsoletis magis pubes- 

 centibus notatis ; antennis corpore longio.'ibus, articulis 3 et 4 conjunctis 5to 

 baud longioribus. Long -45 — -53. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



Middle and Western States. Centrodera is readily distinguished among our 

 Leptiiride genera bj the large coarsely granulated eyes. This species differs 

 from the other two by the lateral tubercle of the thorax not being acute, and 

 by the 3d and 4th joints of the antennae being shorter. 



12. Toxotus Schaumii Lee. 



The males of this species are frequently reddish yellow, with only the elytra 

 and antennae black; the first joint of the antennae is yellow and the tarsi are 

 fuscous. 



Pyrotkichcs. (Lepturini.) 



Corpus elongatum lineare ; caput longe pone oculos subito constrictuni, 

 fronte brevi verticali ; oculi valde emarginati, subtiliter granulati ; palpi 

 articulo ultimo modice dilatato, campanulato. Thorax tuberculo acuto late- 

 rali armatus ; elytra elongata parallela, prtecipue postice fortiter marginata. 

 Antennas (maris) crassiusculse, corpore paulo breviores, articulis 3io et 4to 

 conjunctis 5to haud longioribus. Pedes mediocres, postici paulo longiores, 

 tibiis calcaribus ad apicem sitis, tarsis posticis articulo Imo sequentes duos 

 asquante. 



This genus is allied to Encyclops, but differs in the proportion of the joints 

 of the antennae, and also by the deeply emarginate eyes. 



13. P. V i 1 1 i c o 1 1 i s , niger, opacus, capite scutello vittisque tribus thoracis 

 laete fulvo-pubescentibus; elytris rude punctatis, thorace parum latioribus, 

 margine postice et ad apicem reflexo. Long. -48. 



California ; Mr. Ulke. In each of the large punctures of the elytra is con- 

 tained a very minute brown hair ; the tip is feebly truncate. 



14. Elaphidion subpubescens, elongatum lineare. pube parca pallida 

 vestituui, testaceum, capite thoraceque fuscis, hoc cylindrico, latitudine longiore, 

 rude sat dense punctatnm, elytris parce antice fortiter punctatis, apice truncatis 

 bispinosis ; femoribus muticis, antennis aiticulis 3 — -5 spina brevi apicali arma- 

 tis. Long. -65. 



New Jersey; Mr. P. Pi. Uhler. Very diff"erent from our other species, and 

 still more slender than E. parallelum. 



15. Heterachthes n o b i 1 i s, elongatus piceus, uitidus, pilis pallidis erectis 

 parce vestitus, thorace latitudine sesqui longiore rude rugose punctato, antice 

 posticeque transversim impresso, elytris parce foi titer punctatis, fascia trans- 

 versa ad .«uturara interrupta ante medium, alteraque communi antice angulata 

 pone medium pallidis ornatis. Long. -50. 



Texas. Resembles in appearance H. 4-m a c u 1 a t i s , but very different by 

 its sculpture and the very distinct chevron-shaped band of the elytra. 



16. Stenosphenusl uge n s, niger, thorace latitudine sublongiore, antrorsum 

 angustato, lateribus rotundatis, iiitido laevi, elytris vitta suturali angusta, 

 alterisque utrinque duabus fere confluentibus punctatis et parce pubescentibus 

 apice bispinosis. Long. -50. 



Texas. Narrower than S. notatus; the elytra have the punctures arranged 

 in three longitudinal bands ; a narrow one at the suture, and two almost con- 

 fluent on the disc ; from the punctures proceed coarse pale hairs ; the inter- 

 vening spaces are smooth and glabrous. The spines of the antennae are as in 

 S. notatus. The feet are entirely black. 



OXOPLCS. 



Corpus elongatum, haud convexum subtiliter parce pubescens, grosse punc- 

 tatum ; mandibular apice l^te emarginatse : antennae sexus utriusque 11-articu- 

 latae; oculi subtiliter granuiati ; thorax transversus, lateribus spina acuta 

 armatus, dorso vix callosus : elytra apice subtruncata haud spinosa. 



A new genus, allied to Tylosis, but differing by the antennae having eleven 



1862 ] 




42 TROCEEDINGS Or THE ACADEMY OF 



joints, and by the lateral spine of the thorax. The species are red and black 

 in color, and resemble in appearance Purpuricenus, which they replace in the 

 interior regions of the continent. 



17. Oxoplus c o r a 1 i n n 8 laete coccineus, capite antennis pedibus metatho- 

 racis lateribus plagacjue maxima communi elytrorum postica nigris ; elytris 

 fortiter sat dense punctatis. Long. -70 — -80. 



New Mexico; Mr. Ulke. The large common spot of the elytra extends from 

 the middle to the tip along the suture, but the red along the margin reaches to 

 within one-fifth of the tip. 



18. Oxoplus cruentus, coccineus, capite antennis pedibus scutello elytris 

 que nigris, his confertissime punctatis basi margiueque laterali fere ad apicem 

 coccineis. Long. '85. 



Cape San Lucas ; Mr. Xantus. Resembles the preceding, but the lateral 

 spine of the thorax is larger ; the elytra are more densely and finely punctured, 

 and the black extends to within one-seventh of the base. 



19. Oxoplus marginatus, subtus fusco-coccineus, supra niger, opacus, 

 pube brevi helva sericea vestitus, thorace spinis rufo-tinctis, elytris confertissime 

 punctatis basi margineque laterali fere ad apicem coccineis. Long. -95. 



Cape San Lucas ; Mr. Xantus. Difl'ers from the preceding not only in color, 

 bnt by the very obvious pubescence and by the punctures of the elytra towards 

 the base being larger. 



20. Clytus approximatus, ferrugineo-fuscus, subtiliter pubescens, 

 thorace latitudine longiore, ovali, confertissime granulato-punctato, ad medium 

 carinulis iransveisis armato, altera utrinque prope basin ; elytris apice oblique 

 truncalis, fascia recta mox ante medium, altera obliqua approximata ad sutu- 

 ram angulata, tertia latiore ad dodrantem, scutelloque flavo-pubeseeatibus; 

 femoribus posticis abdomine longioribus, vix spinosis. Long. -33 — -45. 



Kansas ; Mr. Ulke. Allied in form and sculpture toC. erythrocephalus; 

 the second elytral band commences on the side behind the middle, runs obliquely 

 forwards nearly to the suture, when it is suddenly angulated and reaches the 

 suture; the point of the angle approaches closely to the first band; body be- 

 neath banded with yellow hair. 



21. Clytus h o r r i d u s, linearis, fusco-piceus, cinereo-pubescens, thorace lati- 

 tudine fere sesqui longiore, subcylindrico, dorso carinulis acutis 6, alteraque 

 utrinque ante basin armato, minus subtiliter granulato, granulis punctigeris: 

 elytris apice oblique truncatis, basi, fasc'.a angusta sspe interrupta vel obsoleta 

 ante medium, altera angulata mox pone medium, tertiaque obliqua ad dodran- 

 tem albo-pubescentibus, femoribus posticis maris abdomine longioribus, fe- 

 minae brevioribus. Long. -30 — -40. 



Middle States. The middle band makes an acute angle on each elytron, the 

 apex being directed towards the base. The suture is more or less clothed with 

 white pubescence; beneath a white spot is seen each side of the metasternum. 

 This species belongs near C. leucozonus. 



22. Pteroplatus? floridanus, niger opacus, supra rude punctatus, thorace 

 fulvo, vittis 3 nigris, dorsali latiore, latitudine breviore, rotundato, parum con- 

 vexo ; elytris thorace paulo latioribus, sutura margine costisque uttinque 

 3 elevatis, his postice obsoletis ; basi margineque externo laete fulvo; antennis 

 corpore duplo brevioribus, baud cristatis, articulo oto 4to longiore, llmo sim- 

 plici, apice subacuto. Long. -37. 



Florida; Mr. Edward Norton. The anterior coxae are not transverse, and 

 their cavities are very slightly angulated externally, about as much so as in 

 Atimia. 



23. Asemum a sperum //ec. has the eyes prominent, and coarsely granulated 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHFLADELPHIA. 43 



as in Criocephalas, but ranch more emarginate than in the other species of that 

 geaus. In the latter respect, however, C. australis (^Asemum auslrale Lee.) 

 is an intermediate form. 



24. Prionus i n n o c u u s, rufo-piceus, nitidus. thorace modice punctato, lati- 

 tudine triplo breviore. angulis omnibus valde rotundatis, lateribus rotundatis. 

 paulo undulatis, elytris thorace fere sesqui brerioribus, latitudine vix sesqni 

 longioribus, sat fortiter punctalis, apice singulatim rotundatis; antennis(9) 

 IS-articulatis. Long. -90. 



New Mexico ; Mr. Ulke. More robust in form than any other species known 

 to me ; the eyes are of the same size as in P. integer Lee. 



Synopsis of the MOEDELLID.E of the "United States. 

 BY JOHN L. LE CONTE. M. D. 



lu investigating the numerous species of this family contained in our fauna. 

 I have recognized other genera, in addition to those noted by me in the Smith- 

 sonian Contributions, in my paper on the Coleoptera of Kansas and New Mexico. 

 I have also become convinced that the genus Sphalera established upon Mor- 

 della m e 1 a e n a Germ., is not tenable, the relative proportion of the outer 

 joints of the antennae being a specific rather than a generic character. 



With these changes, our genera may be arranged in two tribes, as follows : 



A. Abdomen without anal prolongation ; claws not cleft ; hind 



coxae moderate ANASPINI. 



Anterior and middle tarsi with 4th joint equal to 3d ; 



Antennae long, scarcely thickened externally Diclidia. 



Antennae shorter, last five joints broader Pestakia. 



Anterior and middle tarsi with 4th joint very small Axa.spis. 



B. Abdomen, with the last dorsal segment prolonged, conical ; 



claws cleft and pectinate ; hind coxae very large MORDELLIN'I. 



a. Hind tibiae with a small subapical ridge ; eyes finely 



granulated ; 

 Scutellum emarginate behind, eyes not reaching the 



occiput TOMOXIA. 



Scutellum triangular, eyes reaching the occiput ; 



Anal style emarginate, last joint of maxillary palpi 



very transverse, securiform Glipa. 



Anal style entire, last joint of maxillary palpi tri- 

 angular or slightly securiform Mokdella. 



b. Hind tibife and tarsi with oblique ridges on the outer 



face ; eyes coarsely granulated ; 



Hind tibiffi without subapical ridge Glipodes. 



Hind tibiae with the subapical ridge distinct Mokdellistexa. 



Tribe 1. ANASPINI. 



The hind coxae are somewhat larger in Anaspis than in the other two genera, 

 and are shaped as in Mordella, though by no means as largely developed as 

 in that genus. The characters of the tribe are : — 



Hind^coxse not or but slightly dilated ; tibiae slender, claws not cleft nor 

 serrate ; last dorsal segment not prolonged ; 6th ventral segment not visible 

 in Anaspis, visible in Pentaria and Diclidia ; eyes oval, narrowly emarginate ; 

 antenna inserted very near the eyes, not serrate. Body transvei'sely strigate, 

 pubescent. The species are found on plants. 



Diclidia. 

 The only species known to me is Anaspis laetula Lee, which differs 

 1862.] 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



from Pentaria by the antennae, which are long and slender, very slightly thick- 

 ened externally, by the form of the mesosternum, as well as by the sexual 

 characters. 



Scutellum rounded triangular, last dorsal segment not prolonged, sixth 

 ventral visible ; hind tibiae slender, without ridges ; fourth joint of anterior 

 and middle tarsi emarginate, not smaller than the third ; claws dilated at base. 

 Hind coxae small. Mesosternum compressed, much elevated. Eyes coarsely 

 granulated, with a small emargination ; antennae long and slender, slightly 

 thickened externally, not serrate ; third and fourth joints each equal to the first 

 and second together, fifth and sixth a little sliorter. Palpi ? 



In the male the fifth ventral segment is broadly emarginate, and from the 

 tip of the abdomen proceed two long triangular appendages, truncate at the 

 apex. The sculpture is of fine transverse lines. 



Yellow ; scutellar cloud and two posterior bands of elytra black, venter 

 fuscous, -12. Texas. 1. laetuIaZec. 



Pentaria Muls. 



Scutellum rounded triangular ; last dorsal segment of abdomen not pro- 

 longed ; sixth ventral segment visible ; hind tibiae without ridges, more slen- 

 der than in Anaspis ; third joint of anterior and middle tarsi not lobed, fourth 

 equal to the third, and emarginate ; claws dilated at base. Hind coxse smaller 

 than in Anaspis. Eyes coarsely granulated with a small emargination ; an- 

 tennae with the joints 4 — 6 short, 7 — 11 thickened, not serrate ; last joint of 

 maxillary palpi triangular, acute at tip. 



Notwithstanding the visible sixth ventral segment, the present genus is so 

 closely allied to Anaspis that it would be unnatural to place it anywhere but 

 in this family. The reduction in size of the hind coxae and the slender hind 

 tibiae indicate a relationship with Scraptia,. 



The species are small, narrow, finely pubescent insects, living upon flowers ; 

 the sculpture consists of very fine, transverse lines as in Anaspis. 



I have not discovered any external sexual characters. 



Body fuscous ; head, thorax, feet and base of antennae testaceous ; elytra 

 black, with a large spot before the middle, extending nearly to the suture, 

 and a broad band near the tip, yellow, '14. Middle States. Anaspis trijas- 

 c/ato Mels. 1. t ri fas c iat a Zee. 



Body entirely fuscous or piceous, legs and base of antennae paler, '11 — '13. 

 Texas and New Mexico. 2. f u s c u 1 a. 



Body very narrow, yellow, with a broad fuscous band on the elytra at the 

 middle, -09. Tejon, California. 3. nubilaZec. 



Anaspis Latr. 



Scutellum rounded triangular, last dorsal segment not prolonged ; sixth 

 ventral not visible ; hind tibife slightly thickened, without ridges ; fourth 

 joint of anterior and middle tarsi very small, received upon the third joint, 

 which is slightly lobed ; claws dilated at base. Hind coxae flat, moderate in 

 size. Mesosternum not compressed, finely carinate. Eyes coarsely granulated, 

 with a i-mall emargination ; antennae slightly thickened externally, not ser- 

 rate ; last joint of maxillary palpi rounded internally, pointed at tip. 



In the male two long, slender appendages are seen proceeding from between 

 the fourth and fifth ventral segments ; the fourth and fifth, and sometimes the 

 others, are longitudinally excavated. 



The genus Authobates Lee. (Agassiz's Lake Superior, 231) was established 

 on false observations; the type of it, Anaspis trifasciata Mels. cannot 

 be placed in the present genus, but must be referred to Pentaria Muls., 

 the generic name under which the characters were first properly exposed. 

 Body entirely black ; transverse striae exceedingly fine : 



Thorax twice as wide as long ; base of antennae, palpi and front legs tes- 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



taceous, "13 — "15. L. Superior and Hudson's Bay Terr. (^ with the ventral 



segments broadly channeled. Hallomenus niger Hald. . 1. nigra Lee. 



Thorax one-half wider than long, mouth and base of antennae very dark 



testaceous, '11 — '15. California. 2. atraLec. 



Head, thorax and body black ; elytra brownish yellow : 

 Thorax scarcely wider than long, -15. Gala, and Sitka. A. luteipennis 

 Lee. .......... 3. s e r ic e a J/a;m. 



Thorax one-half wider than long, -12 — -14. Georgia and Minnesota. 



4. flavipennis Hal. 

 Thorax and elytra brownish yellow : 

 Thorax one-half wider than long ; head yellow ; antennae and abdomen 

 usually fuscous, sometimes yellow, '12 — -15. Southern, Middle and Western 

 States, Canada, Sitka. A. pallescens Mann. ; ventralis Mels. ; Jiliformis Lee. 



5. ruf a Sa?/. 

 Thorax one-half wider than long, head black, antennae and body fuscous, 

 the former pale at the base, -10 — '13. Washington Territory. 



6. nigrieeps Lee. 



Thorax nearly twice as wide as long ; entirely uniform yellowish brown, 



more robust than the preceding, -05. Colorado Desert. . 7. pus io Lee. 



Thorax yellow, elytra and body black : 

 Thorax a little wider than long, anterior and middle thighs partly testa- 

 ceous ; transverse lines of elytra more distinct than usual,"l2. San Diego, 

 Gala 8. c o 1 1 a r i s Lee. 



Tribe n. MORDELLINI. 

 Hind coxae very large and flat, metasternum short ; hind tibiae dilated ; 

 claws cleft to the base, with the upper portion strongly pectinate ; last dor- 

 sal segment conical, prolonged, sixth ventral not visible. Eyes oval, emargi- 

 nate, antennae more or less serrate, inserted in front of the eyes under a frontal 

 margin. Body pubescent, very finely punctulate. 



ToMoxiA Costa. 



The species of this genus are cuneiform, of a blackish color, varied with 

 irregularly diffused gray pubescence ; the scutellum is emarginate behind, 

 the anal style is short and obtuse ; the hind tibiae and tarsi without ridges, 

 except the short subapical one of the former ; the eyes are finely granulated, 

 the antennae tolerably strongly serrate, and the last joint of the palpi is more 

 or less elongate, triangular and moderately thick, with the extremity hollowed 

 out. 



The species are found running on the bark of trees which are partly dead ; 

 three are known to me, — 



§ A. Last joint of maxillary palpi long triangular ; base of thorax rounded 



at the middle. 

 Elytra with broad lines not extending behind the middle ; a posterior fascia 

 composed of spots and the apical margin cinereous ; of the dark markings 

 a rhomboidal spot each side near the base is most characteristic, -38 — -5. Mid- 

 dle and Western States 1. b id e nia t a (5a2/.) 



§ B. Last joint of maxillary palpi securiform ; base of thorax subemarginate 



at the middle. 



Elytra with narrow lines and subapical fascia cinereous, dark markings all 

 narrow, -21— -32. Middle States. . . . • . 2. 1 i n e e 1 1 a. 



Elytra with a broad basal fascia including each side a round dark spot, 

 transverse spot behind the middle, apex, suture and margin cinereous, '19. 



Western States ' . . . . 3. i n c 1 u s a. 



1862.] 




46 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Glipa Lee. 



The only species known to me is narrow and cuneiform ; the scutellum is 

 rounded triangular, the anal style is short and subemarginate ; the hind tibiae 

 and tarsi are without ridges, except the short, subapical one of the former ; 

 the eyes are very finely granulated, the antennae tolerably strongly serrate, 

 and the last joint of the maxillary palpi very broadly securiform and mode- 

 rately thick, with the extremity hollowed out. 



Black, varied with cinereous hair, elytra with a narrow subbasal baud ob- 

 lique inwards, and a broad one oblique outwards, brown pubescent, con- 

 nected along the suture and margined with cinereous pubescence, '35 — -48. 

 Middle and Western States. Mordella hilaris La.y. . 1. hilarisZec. 



MoRDELLA Linn. 



The species of this genus are cuneiform ; the scutellum is triangular ; the 

 anal style generally long and slender ; the hind tibiae and tarsi are without 

 ridges, except the short, subapical one of the former ; the eyes are finely 

 granulated, the antennae are more or less serrate ; the last joint of the max- 

 illary palpi long triangular, very obliquely truncate, except in the male of M. 

 ocul ata, where it is broad and securiform, with the under surface clothed 

 with erect hairs, moderately thick and hollowed out at the extremity ; Spha- 

 lera Lee. founded upon M. me 1 ae n a Germ, is not sufficiently distinct. 



The species are found on flowers. 



§ A. Anal style short truncate, antennae broadly serrate. 



Piceous, covered with sericeous brown hair, elytra with a double cinereous 



spot each side, behind the middle, "25 — -30. Kansas. 1. 4-punctata Lee* 



Dall black; thorax, pygidium and elytra sprinkled with small rounded 



spots of a silvery pubescence, elytra with a narrow, interrupted band behind 



the middle, composed of confluent spots, -13. Northern States. 



2. borealis. 



§ B. Anal style long slender. 

 A. Last joint of maxillary palpi scalene triangular. 



a. Pubescence above dark, Avithout conspicuous markings : 



Deep black, finely pubescent, base of thorax broadly rounded at the mid- 

 (lle^ •2— -33. Middle, Southern and Western States. 3. m e 1 a e n a Gfrmr. 



Above dull black, scutellum cinereous, beneath with fine grayish pubes- 

 cence, sides of breast and anterior margin of ventral segments clothed with 

 nearly white pubescence, -16 — "23. N. Y., Canada, Ga., Oregon, California. 

 M. atrata Mels 4. scutellaris Fabr. 



Black, pubescence above brownish black, with single cinereous hairs inter- 

 mixed, beneath dull black, -12 — -17. Southern and Western States. 



5. irror at a. 



b. Pubescence above black, with orange-colored spots : 



Occipital margin, base of thorax, with two short projections each side, ir- 

 regular spot surrounding the humerus, and a lunate spot near the tip of the 

 elytra clothed with bright orange-colored pubescence, '30. Florida. 



6. inf la mmata. 



Head grayish pubescent, thorax with reticulated lines of grayish yellow hair, 

 elytra with a curved basal spot, a narrow oblique one behind the humerus, 

 a rounded subsutural one at the middle, and a reniform spot one-fourth from 

 the tip, more or less fulvous pubescent, beneath spotted with cinereous pubes- 

 cence, '24— -28. Middle and Southern States. . 7. octopunctata Fabr. 



* Anaiipis 4 punctata Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., 3, 276. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PKILADELPIIIA. 47 



c. Pnbescence above black, varied with cinereous pubescent markings : 



!. Antennse and front legs black ; markings small, irregular. 



Thorax cinereous pubescent, with large black spots ; elytra with small 

 cinereous markings, more or less confluent ; beneath varied with cinereous 

 and black, -12 — "17. Atlantic to Kansas ; La. to Winnipeg. 



S. marginata Mels. 



Thorax cinereous pubescent, with large black spots ; elytra with small 

 cinereous markings, confluent into narrow lines ; beneath varied with cine- 

 reous and black, • 14 — '17. Middle and Western States, Canada. 



9. 1 i n e a t a Mels. 



b. Antennae and front legs testaceous ; markings irregular : 

 Thorax and elytra speckled with small, rounded, unequal, cinereous spots, 

 interrupted band behind, the middle of the elytra and tip cinereous ; beneath 

 varied with cinereous and black, -IS. .... 10. s er val 5a(/. 



B. Last joint of maxillary palpi broad, securiform. 

 (Antennae and front legs testaceous, markings large.) 

 Elytra with a large basal band including each side a round black spot, and 

 an interrupted band behind the middle cinereous : beneath varied with cine- 

 reous ; (maxillary palpi of male larger than in the female, with the under 

 surface of the joints clothed with erect hairs,) •23 — -26. Middle, Southern 



and Western States 11. oc u lat a Sa?/. 



Elytra with an oblique band running from the humerus almost to the su- 

 ture, a transverse spot behind the middle, and the entire suture cinereous : 

 beneath varied with cinereous, (^ unknown,) 20. Kansas. 



12. i n s u 1 a t a Lee. 



C. Last joint of maxillary palpi almost an isoceles triangle. 



a. Body entirely black, robust, elytra with broad cinereous pubescent bands, 



thorax cinereous pubescent with large black spots. 



Elytra with a broad basal band including on each side two spots, and two 



oblique undulated bands of cinereous hair, "12 — '14. Middle and Western 



States 13. triloba Z?c.* 



Elytra with a broad basal band including each side a very large black spot, 

 band just behind the middle and tip cinereous, -11. Middle and Western 



States 14. u n d u 1 a t a Mel.<. 



b. Head, thorax and elytra partly yellow, the latter with transverse bands. 

 Black, antennfe, feet, middle of pectus and occiput yellow, thorax yellow 

 with a very large triangular black spot occupying the whole of the apex, and 

 extending nearly to the base, elytra with an oblique humeral vitta connected 

 with a band before the middle, another band behind the middle, the apex and 

 margin and suture behind the secondhand yellow, -09 — -li. Middle, Southern 

 and Western States. Varies with the elytra marked with only two transverse 



yellow bands 15. disco idea 3/c/.«. 



Glipodes Lee. 



The species of this genus are cuneiform, narrow, fuscous and covered with 

 a dense sericeous brown pubescence. The scutellum is rounded triangular, 

 the anal style is moderately long: the hind tibiae have no subapical ridge, 

 (which exists in all the other genera,) but are carinate along the dorsal line' 

 and furnished with a long oblique ridge on the outer surface, which is con- 

 nected with the dorsal ridge near the tip ; the first joint of the hind tarsi has 

 two oblique ridges. The eyes are coarsely granulated ; the antennae are feeblv 



• Anaspis triloba Say, Journ, Acad , 3, 27G. 



1862.] 




48 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



serrate. The last joint of the maxillary palpi is scalene triangular in form, 

 and in the male of G. sericans is covered on the under surface with a 

 dense brush of fine short hair ; in the same sex there is at the base of the 

 last joint an external articulated bifurcated appendage, the branches of which 

 are as long as the joint ; no vestige of this is seen in the female ; the last 

 joint of the labial palpi of both sexes of G. sericans is triangular and 

 broadly emarginate at tip , in G. h e 1 v a the same joint is bell-shaped and 

 truncate at tip. 



§ A. Labial palpi with the last joint emarginate. 

 Cuneiform elongate, fuscous, densely clothed with sericeous brown pubes- 

 cence, -SO. Middle, Southern and Western States. {(^ as above described.) 

 Mordella sericans yiels, 1. ser ic an s (Lee.) 



B. Labial palpi with the last joint truncate. 

 Almost linear, fuscous, densely clothed with sericeous brown pubescence, 

 •18. Georgia. 2. helva. 



MOEDELLISTENA Costa. 



Scutellum rounded triangular ; anal style long and slender ; hind tibiae 

 with a subapical, short, transverse ridge, and from one to five oblique ridges 

 on the outer face ; hind tarsi with several oblique ridges. Eyes coarsely 

 granulated ; antennae feebly serrate ; last joint of maxillary palpi triangular. 



The numerous species of this genus are small, frequently elegnntly colored 

 insects living upon flowers ; they are either linear or slightly cuneiform. 

 Divisions are easily formed by regarding the ridges of the hind tibiag and 

 tarsi which scarcely vary in the same species. Species of similar color, e. g. 

 M. lute a, vapid a, tost a, ustulata, nubila and a m b u s t a, 

 which are all of a yellowish brown color, are easily distinguished by reference 

 to the hind tibi:e and tarsi. When the previously described species have 

 been referred to Mordella, I have placed the authority in parenthesis, to save 

 the space of a doiible reference. 



§ A. Hind tibise and first joint of hind tarsi each with a single short oblique 

 ridge near the tip : 

 Body narrow, parallel ; black, elytra with two orange bands, the first near 

 the base and interrupted by the suture, the second one- fourth from the tip ; 

 head antenna^, feet (except the hind femora) and anus reddish testaceous, "09. 

 Southern States ; thorax sometimes black, sometimes rufous. 



1. bicinctella. 

 § B. Hind tibiae with two oblique ridges on the outer face. 



a. Ridf^es converging above ; first joint of tarsi with two, second with one 

 oblique ridge ; body slender, slightly cuneiform, uniform brownish yellow : 



Ridges of hind tibiae long, very strongly marked, -13. Pennsylvania. 



2. a r i d a. 

 <( " shorter, less strongly marked. '11 — 'IS. Pa., Ga. 



3. 1 u t ea {Mels.) 



b. Ridges parallel, equal : 



a. First joint of hind tarsi with two, second with one oblique ridge : 



Elytra black, with two transverse yellow bands, the anterior one interrupted 

 at the suture and thus composed of two triangular spots, the apices being 

 towards the base ; body narrow, nearly parallel ; 



— body black, head rufous, thorax black, basal margin and sides dark yellow, 

 feet and abdomen tinged with testaceous, -09— -11. Middle, Western and 

 Southern States 4. t r i f a s c i a t a {Saij. ) 



body yellow, thorax yellow, abdomen and hind tibiae and tarsi varied with 



black, -11. Middle and Southern States. . . . 5. lepidula. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



Above pale, large frontal spot, discoidal spot and anterior angles of thorax, 

 suture and sides of elytra blackish ; feet and hind coxae pale, metasternum 

 and abdomen blackish, •12. Middle States. . . 6. 1 i m ball s rJ/e/s.) 



Entirely luteous, '09. Pennsylvania. . . . . 7. v a p i d a. 



Entirely black, pubescence grayish sericeous, '09 — '11. California. 



8. V i lis (Lee.) 



b. First and second joints of hind tarsi each with two oblique ridges : 

 Narrow, parallel ; body yellow ; head behind the antennse blackish ; thorax 



with the front half yellow, with a medial cloud ; hind half blaek ; elytra 

 black, with a large, elongate basal spot ; margin and suture, behind the mid- 

 dle, yellow, '12. Western States. . . . . 9. decorella. 



c. First joint of hind tarsi with three, second with two oblique ridges ; 

 body narrow, slightly cuneate : 



Reddish j^ellow, base of thorax and elytra black, the latter with a large tri- 

 angular basal spot on each, yellow suture and margin behind the middle nar- 

 rowly yellow, -14. Middle and Southern States. . 10. orna, t a, (Mels.) 



Black, head and humeral spot of elytra reddish yellow ; anterior feet yel- 

 low, hind feet blaek, varied with testaceous, -09. Middle and >Jorthern States. 



11. mi 1 i t a r i s. 



Black, elytra 'with an orange yellow oblong humeral spot, '16. Middle 

 and Western States. ..... 12. s cap u 1 a ri s (5a^.) 



Blackish, densely clothed with grayish sericeous hair ; head and thorax red- 

 dish yellow, the latter black at the base ; feet testaceous, '12 — 'l?. Colorado 

 •Desert, California 13. co mat a (Lee.) 



Pale yellowish brown, slightly cuneate, hind tibiae with a very faint trace 

 of a 3d ridge, -12. Georgia 14. t o s t a. 



Black, linear, pubescence fine and dark ; head before the eyes, anterior part 

 of thorax, front and middle thighs ferruginous; antennse piceous, '11 — -VS. 

 Middle States. ......... 15. picicornis. 



Black, linear, pubescence brown sericeous ; head before the eyes and thorax 

 ferruginous, the latter with a linear dorsal cloud, "ll. New York. 



16. cervical! s. 



Black, linear, pubescence brownish gray, hind tibiae with a very faint trace 

 of a 3d ridge, -09— -11 17. as p e rs a (J/e/s.)* 



d. First joint of hind tarsi with three, second with one oblique ridge ; 

 body narrow, almost parallel : 



Head, thorax and feet reddish yellow ; elytra fuscous, with the humeri and 

 apical margin reddish yellow ; abdomen, sternum and hind coxae and femora 

 blackish ; incisures of hind feet blackish, *09. Illinois. 



18. fulvicollis (3/eZs. ) 



c. Ridges parallel, the anterior one extending almost across the outer face 

 of the tibiae. 



a. First joint of hind tarsi with two, second with one oblique ridge ; elytra 

 black, with two yellow bands precisely as in species 4 and 5. 



Head, thorax and feet yellow, thorax with a narrow dor?al cloud ; elytra black, 

 with two yellow bands, the acterior one interrupted by the suture; trunk black-- 

 isb, -10 Georgia . . . . 19. arnica. 



b. Fir8t joint of bind tarsi with three, second with two oblique ridges. 

 Black covered with cinereous pubescence ; elytra wih two broad bands, and 



the apex black pubescent, -08. S.Carolina. . . . . 20. i n f i m a. 



• The pubescence of this species is described by Dr. Rlelsheimer (Pr. Ac, 2, 314) as 

 being mottled, but the type furnished by him, on being carefully cleaned and remounted, 

 shows a uniformly diffused covering of brownish gray hair. 



1862.] 4 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Elytra yellow, wiih the base, tip, sutura and large oblong marginal spot 

 black ; 



— head, thorax and body black ; antennge and legs yellow, '09. Middle States, 



21. andreae. 



— head, thorax and body yellow ; abdomen blackish, '10. Georgia. 



22. g r a m m i c a. 



Elytra ferruginous, with the suture and margin blackish ; 



— black, raoiith and anterior teet testaceous : bind tibisB and tarsi testaceoas, 

 with incisures black ; anus piceous, "09. Georgia. . . 23. a n c i 1 1 a. 



— black, head and part of thorax reddish yellow, anterior feet yellow, hind 

 tibiae and tarsi testaceous, with incisures black, -10 — '12. Middle and Southern 

 States. ........... 24. v a r i a a 8. 



— ferruginous, black linob of elytra very narrow : abdomen, and sometimes hind 

 coxcE and pectus blackish, -9 — -11. Middle and Southern States. 



25. u s t u 1 a t a. 



Elytra without distinct markings ; pubescence brownish gray ; 



Piceous, head, thorax and anterior legs ferruginous ; humeri with an indefi- 

 nite ferruginous spot; anus rufo-piceous, "09 — -11. Middle and Southern 

 States . . . 26. s e m i u s t a. 



Piceous, head, apical margin of thorax and anterior legs ferruginous; anas 

 rufo-piceous, 09. S.Carolina. . . . . . 27. i m p a t i e ns. 



Entirely blackish piceous, 09. Middle and Southern States. 



28. u ig ric ans (.l/e?«.) 



Blackish piceous ; head ferruginous; anlennae. anterior feet, middle tibice and 

 tarsi, base of hind tibiae and tarsi, and margin of abdomen testaceous; first joint 

 of hind tarsi with a rudiment of 4th ridge, -12. .Middle and Southern States. 



29. r u f i c e p 9. 



Ferruginous ; eides of pectus and elytra darker : bind tibiae with a rudiment 

 of a 3d, first j jint of tarsi with a rudiment of a 4th ridge, -IS. San Diego. 

 California 30. n u b i 1 a {Lee.) 



§ C. Hind tibiae with three short, oblique, parallel ridges. 



a. First joint of hind tarsi with three, second with two oblique ridges; elytra 

 not banded. 



Black, linear, elytra with numerous rounded spots of ashy sericeous pubes- 

 cence, -09 — -11. Middle, South, and West. States. 31. p u s t u la t a (J/f/*.)* 



Black, linear, elytra with lines of brownish gray pubescence, confluent be- 

 hind, 12. Kentucky. ....... .32. c o n v i c t a. 



Nearly linear, ferruginous ; elytra black, with the suture and margin nar- 

 rowly ferruginous ; base ferruginous, broader at the humeri, -19. Pa., Ky. 



33. fuscipennis {ilels.) 



Slightly cuneate ; beneath ferruginous; abdomen and sides of breast dusky, 

 above black; mouth, anterior narrow inteirupted band of thorax, large tri- 

 angular basal spot of each elytra, and suture and margin behind the middle 

 yellow, -15. Lake Superior. ..... 34. p ec t or a 1 i s (jL«e. ^ 



Nearly linenr, entirely- black, pubescence brownish gray, -ll — 15. Lake 

 Superior and Minnesota. . ....... 35. morn la. 



Nearly linear, fusco-ferruginous, pubescence brown sericeous, ridges of hind 

 tibise longer and more oblique than usual, -12 — -15. Southern States. 



36. am b u s t a. 



b. First joint of hind tarsi with four, second with two oblique ridges ; elytra 

 not banded. 



Slightly cuneate, piceous, covered with brown sericeous pubescence, '12 — -15. 

 Middle, Southern and Western States. .... 37. u n i c o 1 o r. 



Slightly cuneate, very black, pubescence fine and dark, mouth and anterior 

 half of thorax ferruginous, -13. Middle States. . 38. m arg i n a 1 i s (iSay.) 



* In one specimen I observed a rudiment of a fourth tibial ridge. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



Slightly cuneate, black, covered with dense brown pubescence ; head, front 

 legs and anterior half of thorax reddish yellow, -11 — 12. Kansas. 



39. d i V i s a Lee."* 



c. Elytra with bands of sericeous pubescence; hind tibiae with a rudiment of 

 a 4th ridge ; first joint of tarsi with three, second with two ridges. 



Black, more robust than usual, pubesceBce brownish, thorax with three large 

 black spots, elytra gray sericeous, with a subbasal spot each side, and two 

 transverse bands black, -09. Middle and Southern States. 



40. pubescens {Fair. ) 



Fusco-luteous, slender, thorax with three badly defined basal clouds, elytra 

 with narrow limb and two very oblique bands yellowish sericeous, -12. Middle 

 and Southern States. ...... 41. 1 i t u r a t a (il/efc.) 



Black, slender, sides of thorax and legs piceo-testaceous ; elytra with very 

 narrow limb, and two oblique ba.nds prolonged backwards near the suture, 

 connected by a line near the margin, and apex paler sericeous, '14. Pa. 



42. b i h a m a t a (iT/^Z«.) 



Black, mouth, antennse, front and middle legs and thorax ferruginous, the lat- 

 ter with a large dorsal, less pubescent black spot, elytra with a very narrow limb, 

 apex and two nearly transverse bands connected by a submarginal line pale 

 sericeous, -ll — -H, Middle and Southern States. Varies with head and thorax 

 black, anterior thighs piceous. . ..... 43. hebraica. 



Reddish dark testaceous, elytra dark fuscous, with a very narrow sutural 

 line, an oblique band from the humerus nearly to the suture, a transverse band 

 behind the middle reaching neither suture nor margin, and an entire transverse 

 band near the tip pale sericeous; (first joint of hind tarsi with a narrow rudi- 

 ment of a fourth ridge,) •12. Middle and Western States. 44. lep ori na. 



^ D. Hind tibiae with four oblique ridges besides the subapical one. 



a. First joint of hind tarsi with three, second with two oblique ridges. 

 Fusco-testaceous, subcuneate, pubescence fulvous, sericeous, -18. Pa. 



45. fusca ta {Meh.) 



b. First joint of hind tarsi with three, second with two, third with two, all 

 the ridges very strongly marked. 



Ferruginous, elytra black, with the humeri indistinctly ferruginous, and the 

 suture and lateral margin narrowly pale sericeous, '23. Pa. 46. pityptera. 



c. First joint of hind tarsi with five, second with four, third with three small 

 oblique ridges. 



Very slender, entirely black, pubescence fine and dark, •23. Ga. 



47. a n gu s ta. 

 § E. Hind tibiae with five or six very small, oblique ridges. 



a. Head ferruginous ; elytra with a ferruginous stripe from the humerus to 

 within one-fifth of the apex ; body black; anterior legs ferruginous. 



Thorax ferruginous, with the anterior part black, •17. Pa. 



48. atte n u ata (/Say.) 

 Thorax entirely black, •20. Pa 49. v i tti g e r a. 



b. Head black ; elytra not viltate. 



Black, pubescence sericeous brown ; elytra blackish, with a long basal spot 

 on each, an undulated band behind the middle, suture and tip paler sericeous, 

 • 14 — -17. Middle and Sonthern States. . . . 00. d i s c ol or (jI/cZj.) 

 Black, pubescence grayish sericeous, slightly mottled, "16. Kansas. 



51. ae m ula Ler.-\ 

 Species unknown to me. 

 Mordella nigripennis Fabr., Ent. Syst. Suppl. 127 ; Syst. El. 2, 123. 



* Coleopt. of Kansas Bnd Eastern New Mexico, (Smiths. Contr.) 17. 

 + Coleopt. of Kansas and New Mexico, (Smiths. Contr.) 16. 



1862.] 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Notes on the Species of CALOSOMA inhabiting the United States. 



BY JOHN L. LECONTE, M. D. 



The difference in the anterior tarsi of the males of certain species of Calo- 

 soma was first observed and made known by Schaum, (Ins. Deutschl. 1, 111,) 

 and a grouping of the species was proposed according as the 4th joint was 

 clothed beneath with a brush of hairs, like the preceding joints, or smooth and 

 naked, as in the majority of the species. An attentive study of the sexual cha- 

 racters of those species represented in my collection has shown me that the 

 number of divisions must be increased, in order that the species may be natu- 

 rally grouped. 



I would arrange our species as follows : — 

 Anterior tarsi of the male with the 4th joint hairy beneath : 



Thorax with sides broadly flattened behind, (body elongate) I. 



Thorax narrowed behind, sides not flattened II. 



Anterior tarsi of the male with the 4th joint glabrous beneath : 



3d joint of anterior tarsi (^ glabrous beneath ; thorax trisinuate behind... III. 

 3d joint of anterior tarsi (^ hairy beneath : 



Thorax truncate behind , IV. 



Thorax emarginate behind : 



Body winged V. 



Body without wings VI. 



Group I. 



The species of this group are remarkable for the long narrow body; the 5th 

 and following joints of the antennae are cylindrical and nearly equably pubes- 

 cent; the thorax is rounded at the sides, very slightly emarginate at the base, 

 which is not narrowed, but broad and flattened each side; the joints 1 — 3 of 

 the anterior tarsi of the male are clothed beneath with a brush of hair; the 

 4th joint is hairy for a small space at the middle, and strongly spinous at the 

 sides. 



Our species are : 1. C. externum Say, (Jongipenne De].) \ 2. C. mac rum 

 Lec.j and 



3. C. protract um, elongatum, nigrum, snbnitidum, thorace latitudine 

 duplo breviore, basi vix emarginato, subsinuato ; margine incrassalo, basi et 

 lateribus punctato. his postice late modice reflexis, elytris thorace paulo lati- 

 oribns, parallelis, subiiliter seriatim punctatis. Long. -95 — 1-05. 



Arizona ; Dr. Irwine, U. S. A. 



Group II. 

 The species of this group have the 5th and following joints of the antennas 

 cylindrical, nearly equably hairy ; the thorax is comparatively small, much 

 narrowed behind, with the base slightly rounded ; the elytra are deeply striate 

 and ovate, being gradually widened from the base ; the joints 1 — 4 of the 

 anterior tarsi of the male are covered beneath with a dense brush of hair, the 

 first, however, being glabrous at the base; the 4th is very slightly spinous at 

 the sides. Our species are : 



4. C. scrutator Fabr. The middle tibise in the male are curved and 

 both they and the hind tibire are furnished with a dense brush of hairs on the 

 inner face near the tip. The species is found from Newfonndland to the point 

 of Lower California. 



5. C. W i 11 c X i Lcc. Middle tibiae of the male straight and not hairy. 



6. C. frigid um KiTby. Middle tibiae of the male slightly curved, and 

 somewhat, though not densely, hairy on the inner face. 



Group III. 

 The single species constituting this group has the outer joints of the antennje 

 cylindrical and equably pubescent ; the thorax is narrowed behind and mode- 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



rately bisinuate at base; the elytra are striate and ovate, but longer than in 

 the preceding group ; the first joint of the anterior tarsi of the male is hairy 

 beneath only for a small portion near the anterior margin ; the 2d joint has the 

 usual brush of hair ; the 3d and 4th joints are entirely without hair. 



7. C. Sayi Dej. The middle tibiae of the male are very much curved, pro- 

 longed at tip oii the inner face, and armed along the inner margin with several 

 small distant teeth. 



Group IV. 

 In this group are several species of a black color, with feeble or obsolete 

 elytral striae ; the outer joints of the antennae are cylindrical and equably punc- 

 tured; the thorax is narrowed behind, sometimes angulated at the sides, with 

 the base not at all emarginate, but truncate or slightly rounded ; the joints 1 — 3 

 of the anterior tarsi of the male are clothed beneath with a dense brush of hair 

 the 4th is naked; nothing peculiar is seen in the form of the middle tibiae of 

 the male. All the species inhabit the plains of the central part of the continent 



8. C. prominens Lee. (^anffulalum\\ Lee.) ; 9. C. 1 u g u b r e Lee. 



10. C. caroonatum, nigrum, subnitidum, thorace latitudine duplo bre- 

 viore antice posticeque angustato, lateribus medio obtuse subangulalis ; disco 

 confertim subtiliter intricato-rugoso, lateribus 'parce punctatis, basi fere recte 

 truncato, elytris subovatis, convexis, thorace laiioribus, striis baud impressis 

 subtiliter punctatis, foveisque obsoletis serie triplici impressis. Long. l-OO. 



New Mexico and Upper Texas. 



11. C. t r i s t e Lee. ; 12. C. o b s o 1 e t u m Say, (Juxatum% Dej.) 



Group V. 



The species here placed have the outer joints of the antennae nearly cylin- 

 drical but less punctured on the sides; the thorax is more or less narrowed 

 behind, and the base is distinctly emarginate; the joints 1 — 3 of the anterior 

 tarsi of the male are clothed beneath with a dense brush of hairs, and the 4th 

 is glabrous ; the middle tibiiB of the male present no important characters. 

 There is much difference in the sculpture of the elytra, the striaj being oblite- 

 rated in C. s e m i 1 as V e , deep in c a 1 i d u m , confused in t e p i d u m , badly 

 defined in cancellatum, which has besides three rows of caleoated eleva- 

 tions. All the species are found on the Pacific coast; C. c a 1 i d u m extends 

 entirely across the continent from ocean to ocean. 



13. C. s e m i 1 ae V e Lee. ; 14. C. c a 1 i d u m Fabr. (var. Icpidum Leo.) ; 15. 

 C. t e p i d u m Lee. 



16. C. cancellatum Esch. (var. cEnescens Lee.) 



Group VI. 



In this group are placed species without wings, and generally of robust 

 form; the outer joints of the antenoEe are somewhat compressed and very con- 

 spicuously less punctured on the flattened sides, except in C. discors, in 

 ■which the antennae resemble those of the preceding group; the thorax is nar- 

 rowed behind, and the base is very obviously emarginate; the joints 1 — 3 of 

 anterior tarsi of the male are clothed beneath with a dense brush of hairs, and 

 the 4th is glabrous ; nothing remarkable is seen in the middle tibiae of the 

 male. 



Four forms of eljtral sculpture are seen. 



a. Elytra with rows of close set punctures, the intervals each with a row of 

 more distant punctures. 17. C. discors Lcc. 



h. Eljtra with confused punctures and three rows of catenated elevations. 

 18. C. moniliatum Lee. 19. C. laqueatum Lee. 



c. Elytra with confused punctures and three rows of faint foveae. 20. C. 

 W i I k e s i i Lee. 



d. Elytra with fine striae, the intervals crossed by transverse lines producing 

 an imbricated ajipearance. 21. C. luxatum Say. {C. siriatidum Lee. and 

 C. Zimmermanni Lee. are varieties, or rather races, of this species.) 



1862.] 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Descriptions of certain species of DIURNAL LEPIDOPTERA found within 

 the limits of the United States and British America— No. 2. 



BY WM. H. EDWARDS. 



1. Argjrnnis Atlantis, nov. sp. 5. Chionobas taygete, Hubner. 



2. Thecla acadica, nov. sp. 6. Pamphila verna, nov. sp. 



3. " laeta, nov. sp. 7. " rurea, nov. sp. 



4. LycEena neglecta, nov. sp. 8. Hesperia vialis, nov. sp. 



ArGYNNIS ATLANTIS, nOV. Sp. 



Male. Expands 2 to 2^ inches. 



Upper side of both wings iiniform fulvous, less bright than Aphrodite or 

 Cybele, dusky near base and on costal margin of primaries ; both wings have 

 a broad black hind margin, sometimes enclosing an interrupted fulvous line 

 next anal angle of secondaries ; preceding this band and connected with it on 

 primaries, a series of black crescents, the one next the inner angle geminate, 

 enclosing round fulvous spots which are smallest next apex ; anterior to these 

 a transverse row of round black spots, an abbreviated black band running 

 obliquely back from the costa, and a zigzag band across the middle of the 

 wing ; within the cell three transverse, wavy black bars, the second continued 

 nearly to the submedian nervure, and a fourth bar on the arc, dilated at its 

 lower extremity and there enclosing a dusky space. 



Secondaries have a series of black crescents, not resting on the marginal 

 border as in primaries, the one next the anal angle geminate, a transverse row 

 of small round black spots, and across the middle of the wing a zigzag band 

 ending within the abdominal margin ; in the cell a black band bent like a 

 horse-shoe ; fringe yellowish wliite, black, with a little fulvous at the inter- 

 section of the nervures. 



Under side : hind margin of both wings dark brown ; disk and inner margin 

 of primaries reddish tawny, costa and apex light butf ; the black markings of 

 upper side repeated, but more delicate ; five silver triangles within the mar- 

 ginal crescents next apex, and preceding these on the costa two rounded 

 silver spots on a dark brown ground. 



Secondaries dark red brown, more or less mottled with drab, except the 

 space between the two outer rows of silver spots, which is bright buff and 

 immaculate ; upon the border of hind margin seven triangiilar silver spots, 

 edged below with black, and above with red brown preceded by another 

 series of seven rounded or oval, the middle one smallest, all edged above 

 with black ; between these and the base are ten silver spots of various sizes 

 and forms, the largest divided by the discal arc ; all these, except the two 

 anterior, edged above with black ; edge of costa next base and whole abdomi- 

 nal margin broadly silvered ; thorax and abdomen above black, covered with 

 fulvous hairs, thorax below reddish grey, abdomen buff; palpi grey, tipped 

 with fulvous ; antenna black above, fulvous below ; club velvet black, tipped 

 with fulvous. 



Female. Expands 2J to 23 inches. 



Color above less bright than the male, inclining to tawny ; the black mar- 

 gin very heavy, and the marginal spots next apex of primaries buff, nearly 

 white ; usually a black spot next base of secondaries ; under side of prima- 

 ries bright fulvous ; in other respects as in the male. 



This species seems to be limited to the mountainous districts of the North- 

 ern States and to parts of British America. In the Catskill Mountains, near 

 the Mountain House, I found it abundant the past season, (1S61.) I have 

 received it from the White Mountains, from Williamstown, Mass., and 

 from Lake Winnipeg, by Mr. S. H. Scudder, and by Mr. Drexler from near 

 Hudson's Bay. The specimens from the White Mountains and Hudson's Bay 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



are diminutive in size. There is also a specimen in the cabinet of the late Dr. 

 Harris, at Cambridge, Mass., taken by Prof. Agassiz on the north side of Lake 

 Superior. 



In the markings of its surface Atlantis bears a dose resemblance to Cybele 

 and Aphrodite, to Adippe and Aglaia of Europe, and to Zerene and Astarte of 

 California. It especially resembles the three last-named species in the zigzag 

 band which crosses the disk of secondaries, but which in Aphrodite takes the 

 form of a belt of small crescents, separated by wide spaces. It is, moreover, 

 readily distinguished from Aphrodite by its duller color, broad black margin 

 to both wings and color of secomlaries below. It also diflers sensibly in the 

 shape of the primaries, the margins meeting at the inner angle more obtusely, 

 the outer angle being more acute and the breadth of the wing from the inner 

 angle to middle of costa much less. The antennje are shorter by one eighth of 

 an inch. 



Of the three species, Cybele is Southern, and in the vicinity of Newburgh, 

 N. Y., is found but little more abundantly than Aphrodite. In the Catskills 

 the latter abounds and Cybele is rare, mucli less common than Atlantis. 

 From Connecticut, Massachusetts and Canada, I have seen no Cybele, though 

 doubtless it is occasionally found in those districts. The prevailing Northern 

 species is Aphrodite. 



Thecla acadica, nov. sp. 



Male. Expands 1*2 inch. 



Size and form of Falacer. Color above dark brown, costal edge of prima- 

 ries rufous ; in the disk a smooth oval spot ; secondaries have a single tail, 

 from the base of which a bluish white line extends along the margin to the 

 anal angle ; the space next above this line is sprinkled slightly with fulvous 

 scales making an indistinct broad band, which ends beyond the tail in a clear 

 fulvous spot ; fringe of both wings brown, next before the tail white, beyond 

 it black, through which runs a white line, and at the angle black. 



Under side d;irk grey, with a pearly lustre ; on primaries a short discal bar, 

 edged with white ; beyond this, a btmt transverse row of black spots, each 

 edged with white, the one next the costa minute, the next three round, fourth 

 and fifth oval, and sixth double ; within and along the margin a row of elon- 

 gated, pale fulvous spots obsolete towards the apex, narrowly bordered within 

 by black, on which rests a line of bluish white. 



Secondaries have a long discal streak, a transverse row of black spots and 

 streaks, each edged with white, the six from the costa nearly round, the next 

 long and bent toward the anal angle, the last a streak running up the abdomi- 

 nal margin and bent upward at right angles near its inner extremity ; hind 

 margin edged with white and bordered by a bright red band, divided by the 

 uervures into spots, arched above and edged with black, on which is a line of 

 bluish white ; this band extends some distance up the abdominal margin, and 

 encloses on the hind margin, near anal angle, a large rounded space sprinkled 

 with blue atoms ; the three red spots next outer angle partly obsolete. 



Taken near London, C. W., by Mr. W. Sauuders. 



Thecla l^ta, nov. sp. 



Expands 9-10 inch. 



Upper side of primaries black, of secondaries blackish brown ; near base of 

 primaries a few scales of metallic blue ; costal edge red ; next the anal angle 

 of secondaries a broad band of metallic blue scales, many of which are re- 

 placed by black, extends half way along the hind margin ; beyond the band 

 a fine line of these scales follows the margin to the outer angle ; anal angle 

 edged with red ; fringe grey. 



Under side of secondaries and apex and costal margin of primaries slate 

 blue, with a green tinge ; costal edge of primaries red ; disk smoke color ; 

 beyond the cell, on costal margin, a transverse, abbreviated series of fine red 

 186-J.] 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



sp'-'ts, edged posteriorly witli white, tlie last two obscured by tbe smoky Lue 

 of the disk. 



Secondaries have two series of red spots parallel to the hiud margin ; thoso 

 of the exterior small, aud towards the outer angle minute, each more or less 

 surrounded by a delicate white border, in vphich are a few black scales ; the 

 inner series crosses the middle of the wing, is slightly inegular, the spots 

 large, brighter red and crescent-shaped, bordered posteriorly with white^ iu 

 which are a few black scales ; edge of the wing at the anal angle and at th« 

 intersection of the .uljoining nervures red ; tlioraxand abdomen above black, 

 beneath white. 



Taken near London, C. W., by Mr. W. Saunders. 



Lyc/Ena neglecta, nov. sj). 



Expands I'l inch. 



Male. Upper side of primaries delicate azure blue, paler in the disk and 

 silvery on costal margin ; secondaries greyish blue, with a broad azure mar- 

 gin ; a black line edges the hiud margin of botli wings, expanding towards 

 apex of primaries into a boi-der, and running a little way along the costal 

 margin ; fringe of primaries white, cut with black by the n^rvures ; of second- 

 aries, sometimes barred with black, but usually wholly white. 



Under side pure white, or white with a bluish tinge ; primaries with a dark 

 discal streak and a transverse series of six black streaks set obliquely ; second- 

 aries have a discal streak, three points near base and eight points or streaks 

 crossing the di«li in a tortuous line : both wings bordered by confluent spots, 

 forming a crenated band, each spot enclosing a darker point. 



Female. Upper side of both wings of a deeper and more metallic blue ; 

 primaries have a broad fuscous hind margin ; in some cases this color extends 

 along the costal margin to the base, where it is sprinkled with blue ; a faint 

 discal streak ; hind margin of secondaries bordered by a row of small fuscous 

 spots. 



Under side dark grey, sprinkled with blue at the base of both wings ; the 

 fuscous spots disposed as in the male, but larger and coarser. 



Variety '/. Upper side wholly fuscous. 



Massachusetts, New York, Wisconsin, Lake Winnipeg. 



Tliere are three species of Lyejense in North America that much resemble 

 each other, viz. : — Lucia of Kirby, Pseudargiolus of Boisduval, and a third 

 hitherto confounded with the later, which I described as Neglecta. Pseudar- 

 giolus resembles Argiolus of Europe in form, size and color above, and was 

 considered by Abbott and Smith as identical with it. Both wings are wholly 

 violet blue' with a pinkish tinge ; the under side is greyish white, and the 

 hind margins are liordered by a broad, serrated band, the teeth of which are 

 separated almost to their bases. This band appears as if stamped on the 

 wing. The color of Neglecta is azure blue on primaries, of secondaries grey 

 blue, with an azure margin ; the under side is pure white or bluish white, and 

 the marginal band is confluent and serrated. Lucia is uniform light silvery 

 blue above and cinereous below, with a border as in Neglecta. The number, 

 shape and arrangement of the spots on the under side of these species are 

 similar, mostly ditfering in degree of fineness ; in Pseudargiolus they are 

 very delicate ; in Neglecta much less so ; in Lucia heavy and coarse. Pseudar- 

 giolus varies much in size. It appears to be rather a Southern species. It is 

 common on the mountains of Western Virginia, and is occasionally met with 

 in New York. Neglecta is common in New York, and I have received it from 

 Wisconsin and from Lake Winnipeg. Lucia seems to be confined to the 

 Northern parts of the continent. I have received from Mr. Drexler a female 

 of Cliionobas Taygete {(Ends Taygde) of Hubner, taken at Albany River, Hud- 

 son's Bay, which agrees with Hubner's figure, but differs from C. Bootes, de- 

 scribed by Boisduval and LeConte as identical, aud from the figure of Bootes 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



in Boisduval's spec. gen. Boisduval, in his Icones, figures Taygete and calls 

 it Bootes without any reference to Hubnei. Bootes is an European species, 

 Taygete an American only, and the priority of name belongs to Hubner. The 

 only description we have, therefore, being incorrect, I described Taygete from 

 Mr. Drexler's specimen. Herrich-Schaeffer, Lep. Eur. f. 112, gives Taygete as 

 same with Boisduval's C. also. But C. also is Hipparchiu semidea of Say, a 

 species as yet only known to be found in the White Mountains of New Hamp- 

 shire. Boisduval's description was taken from a single specimen forwarded 

 by the late Dr. Harris to Major Le Conte with Say's name, which should have 

 been retained. C. semidea appears to have been lost sight of, and doubted as 

 a species for many years, till, in 1857, Mr. Scudder found it abundant on the 

 summit of Mt. Washington. 



Chinobas Taygete. 



Olneis Taygete, Hubner. 



C. Boofes, Boisduval and Le Conte. 



C. Bootes, Boisduval in Icones. 



Female. Expands 2-2 inches. 



Upper side ochrey brown, both wings, from the base to beyond the cell, 

 clouded with black, which makes externally an irregular outline, crenate in 

 the median interspaces of primaries ; hind margin of both wings and apex of 

 primaries bordered with dark brown ; between ihis and the clouded space a 

 broad common band, in which, on the primaries, are three black pyriform 

 spots, the first being between the discoidal nervules and the others in the two 

 ■ spaces between the median nervules; a small round black spot in the anal 

 angle of secondaries ; costal margin of primaries sprinkled with black and 

 grey. 



Under side : primaries paler, the whole wing marked by fine, transverse, 

 abbreviated streaks of dark brown, most dense in the cell ; spots as above ; 

 costa barred with grey and black ; a heavy black line corresponds nearly to 

 the dark outline of clouded space above, but wants the crenations and pro- 

 jects on the second discoidal nervule into an acute angle. 



Secondaries wholly mottled and streaked transversely with grey, light brown 

 and black, the latter color predominating next the base, and light brown on 

 the hind margin ; a broad band crosses the disk, black on the edges, the inner 

 edge angular, the outer sinuous ; a minute black spot in the anal angle ; ner- 

 vures grey and prominent. 



Albany River, Hudson's Bay, by Mr. Drexler. 



Pamphila verna, nov. sp. 



Expands 1-2 inch. Size and form of Otho. 



Male. Both wings dark glossy brown ; body covered with greenish hairs ; 

 on costa of primaries near apex a yellowish spot, divided into three by the 

 nervures, on the disk an oblique black bar, posterior to which, and running 

 with it from the middle of the inner margin, are three yellowish, translucent 

 spots, the anterior minute, the next a parallelogram, the third separated from 

 the second by a wide space. 



Beneath dark brown, with a purple reflection ; same spots on primaries as 

 above, but enlarged ; across the disk of secondaries an obsolete row of points, 

 thorax grey ; abdomen, head and palpi whitish. 



Female. Same color ; the oblique band of yellowish spots varies, the 

 second being nearly square and preceded by an additional small spot at its 

 upper inner angle. Beneath lighter brown ; the obsolete points on second- 

 aries of the male become distinct yellow spots, crossing the wing two-thirds 

 the distance from the abdominal margin, when they bend at right angles, and 

 run nearly to the costa. 



Illinois, from Mr. Walsh, Washington. 

 1862.] 




58 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Pamphila rurea, nov. sp. 



Expands l-l inch. 



Male. Color above and below dark glossy brown ; on primaries an oblique 

 black bar. 



Female. Same color ; on the costa of primaries, near the apex, a yellowish 

 spot divided into three by the nervures, and two small spots near middle of 

 the wing ; all these are repeated below, and on the disk of secondaries are 

 four^ obsolete points in a transverse line. 



Rock Island, Illinois, from Mr. B. D. Walsh. 



Hesperia vialis, nov. sp. 



Expands 9-10 inch. 



Color fuscous ; the only markings are four fine, yellowish-white spots on 

 costa of primaries near apex ; fringe long, color brown, barred with black by 

 the intersection of the nervures. 



Under side darker, with a purple reflection on apex of primaries and hind 

 margin of secondaries ; thorax grey, palpi light grey. 



Rock Island, Illinois ; Lake Winnipeg. 



Description of a New CARDITJM from the Pleistocene of Hudson's Bay 



BY WM. STIMPSON. 



Cakdium Dawsoni. 



Cardium tslandicum Stimpson, (non Chemn.) Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 

 1861, p. 97. 



Shell subovate, oblique, very inequilateral, and somewhat angular posteri- 

 orly ; beaks small and much elevated ; 

 hinge thin ; teeth weak, especially the pos- 

 terior ones ; ribs about thirty-five in num- 

 ber, in the anterior part of the shell nar- 

 rower than their interspaces, in the mid- 

 dle and posterior parts broader arfd more 

 flattened ; ventral margin crenated. 



Length 1-63 ; height 1*53; convexity, 

 or breadth, 1 inch. Imperfect specimens 

 indicate a larger size. 



This shell resembles C. islandicnm, {cili- 

 atam 0. Fabr.,) in the characters of the 

 hinge, but is easily distinguished by its 

 obliquity and the great elevation of its 

 small beaks, the prominence of which gives 

 an angularity of outline to the umbonial slope, very difi'erent from the evenly 

 rounded and more depressed slope of the recent shell. The posterior ex- 

 tremity also is much less rounded, and in some specimens the posterior and 

 ventral margins form nearly a right angle with each other. The ribs are not 

 acute as in C. islandicum, but more or less flattened, and generally broader 

 than their interspaces. From C. decorticatum S. Wood, of the English crag, 

 this species difi"ers in its thinner hinge and weak teeth ; from C. interruptuvi 

 of the same author, and formation, by its greater obliquity, and the prominence 

 of the beaks. 



Our specimens all present a character which may perhaps be considered 

 specific ; that of broad concentric bands of erosion, separated by correspond- 

 ing crenulated ridges, indicating periods of arrest of growth in the shell, at 

 which periods the margins, being slowly formed, were of stronger sirbstance 

 than when the deposit proceeded more rapidly. These periods were probably 

 annual, occurring in winter. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPUIA. 59 



It was found by Mr. Drexler abundantly on the beach at Cape Hope, on the 

 southeast side of Hudson's Bay, having in all probability been washed out of 

 a Pleistocene deposit. The specimens are in the Museum of the Smithsonian 

 Institution, under the auspices of which Mr. D. visited that country. 



This is doubtless the shell figured as a il///a by E. Emmons, in the fourth 

 volume of the "Natural History of New York, pi. i., fig. 9, as occurring in 

 the Pleistocene of Lake Champlain, 



I have dedicated the species to the accomplished President of McGill College, 

 Montreal, to whom we are indebted for so much of our knowleflge of the Na- 

 tural History and Geology of Canada, particularly that of its Pleistocene de- 

 posits. 



Additions to the Nomenclature of North American LEPIDOPTEBA. 

 BY AUG. R. GROTE. 



In offering these papers, the writer would refer to the diflaculties experienced 

 by the American student of Entomology in obtaining the knowledge of the 

 descriptions of native species ; difficulties so well presented by Dr. T. W. 

 Harris in bis Catalogue of the Insects of Massachusetts. 



And it seems no more than probable that, laboring under these difficulties, 

 the writer may redescribe already acknowledged species. Where this is 

 brought to his notice, he will willingly and gladly acknowledge his synonyms, 

 giving the priority to the rightful author. 



NOCTU^. 

 Gen. Platypterix, Laspeyres. 

 Antennae doubly pectinate in the male ; pectinations turned towards each 

 other ; simple in the female. Palpi with three articles, of which the second 

 is longest, the third short and pointed. Body slender, shorter than the wings. 

 Wings broad, the anterior ones with a sickle-shaped outer margin, recurving 

 at the tips. Posterior pair rounded. 



P. f abula, nov. sp. — Anterior wings dirty white. From the curved tip a 

 dark brown line with paler margin follows the inclination of the wing to the 

 hind margin. Emerging from this line, and between it and the outer margin 

 of the wing, a wavy dark brown line goes down to the hind margin, joining 

 it close to the outer edge of the wing. Between the base of the wing and the 

 first named and broadest line, thiee distinct, irregular, brown wavy lines cross 

 the wing from the upper to the hind margin. The second and third from the 

 base of the wing run close together and unite three times, forming two un- 

 equal enclosed spaces up to about half of the wing, and then diverging, form 

 an outline which bears a slight resemblance to the profile of a face. Two 

 dark spots are enclosed in this, and a third and larger one is crossed by the 

 third line near the centre of the wing. Outer margin dark brown, deepen- 

 ing towards the tip. Posterior wings dirty white, with two dark dots near 

 the upper edge, and crossed by several interrupted wavy lines, the one 

 nearest the outer margin continued. Body and thorax dirty white. Exp. 

 If inch. 



A male, taken on Long Island, New York. 



Obs. This insect bears a resemblance in its markings to the European P. 

 falcula; it dift'ers, however, specifically from that species in its coloring 

 as well as that the wavy lines on the anterior wings are not confluent, thus 

 forming no enclosed spaces. 



P. genicula, nov. sp. — Anterior wings light ochre yellow. From the 

 tip a curved dark brown line follows the inclination of the wings to the hind 

 margin. Between this distinct line and the base of the wing three irregular 



1862.] 




60 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



wavy lines cross the wing from the anterior edge to the hind margin ; the 

 second and third from the base and the widest apart enclosing three dark 

 brown spots, two larger and one smaller. Outer margin of the wing brown, 

 deepening in color and widening toward the tip, which shows a slightly bluish 

 shade. Posterior wings light ochre yellow, with two black dots near the upper 

 edge, and crossed by several wavy and more or less interrupted lines. Outer 

 margin light brown. Body and thorax light ochre yellow. Under surface 

 of the wings of a lighter shade, and showing the spots on the anterior wings 

 and two dots on each of the posterior wings. Exp. 1} inch. 



A male. Staten Island, N. Y. 



From the collection of Mr. E. L. Graef, Brooklyn, L. I. Closely allied to 

 P. f a b u 1 a, but well distinguished by its ground color and divergence of the 

 wavy lines on the anterior wings. 



P. formula, nov. sp. — Light roseate brown. Legs light orange on the 

 inside. Anterior wings light roseate brown, with a broad light citron yellow 

 band running from the tip to the hind margin of the wing, leaving a roseate 

 brown space between it and the outer margin, deepening in color towards the 

 inner angle of the curve. Two small white spots toward the anterior edge 

 of the wing, between which and the base of the wing an irregular deeper 

 shade-line runs down and is continued through the posterior wings to the 

 inner margin and near the base of the wing. Posterior wings same color as 

 anterior, with the citron yellow band enlarged to the whole outer margin of 

 the wing, except a small space in the upper corner, two rows of minute dark 

 spots, apparently continued from the upper wing, run through this band near 

 the outer edge of the wing. Base of the wing roseate brown, with two small 

 white spots outside of the continued dark shade-line running through both 

 wings. Thorax and body roseate brown. Under surface of the wings lighter 

 shaded, showing the small dark spots more apparent and lengthened on the 

 anterior wings. Exp. 1^ inch. 



A female. New York. 



With the male of this species I am not acquainted. The peculiar curving 

 of the anterior wings seem to warrant its disposition under the present genus. 

 It has the general coloring of an autumn leaf. 



Synopsis of the Species of HOLCOSUS and AMEIVA, with Diagnoses of new 

 West Indian and South American Colubridse. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



L 

 HoLCOSDS Cope. 

 Ventral shields large, in six longitudinal row's, without keels. Femoral 

 pores present. Tail cylindrical, keels of the scales very strong. Two dermal 

 gular folds. Frontal, fronlo-parietal and parietal plates very numerous ; supra- 

 orbitals forming an isolated disc. Tongue sheathed at the base. 



H. septemlineatus. 



Anmva septemlineata Dumeril, Catal. Method. Collect. 1851, p. 114. 



Frontal plates four, occipitals five, succeeded by a transverse series of 6ve 

 other plates. Supraoculars two. Median gular scales a little larger than those 

 surrounding, smaller than those of the postgiilar fold. Heels without spinous 

 tubercles. Bronze green, with seven longitudinal yellowish hues, one median, 

 three upon each side. 



Mab. — Tropical America. 



H. sexscutatus. 



Ameiva sexscutata Giinther, Proc. Zool. Soc. Nov. 1859. 



An anterior nasal on each side ; an anterior frontal ; two posterior frontals 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



separated by a shield: three pairs of parietals in a longitudinal series. Oc- 

 cipital region irregularly shielded. Supraorbitals two. A median chin shield 

 behind the symphyseal. Greenish olive, irregularly speckled with darker. A 

 greenish white vertebral stripe. A lateral black greenish-white boidered band 

 from in front of the eye to the thigh. Beneath greenish white. 

 Hab. — Andes of Western Equador. 



Ameiva Cuvier. 



For convenience of analysis, this genus may be divided into the following 

 sections, nearly as has been done by Dr. J. E. Gray. 



Inner aspect of heel without spinous tubercles. 



Abdominal shields in eight longitudinal rows A 



Abdominal shields in ten longitudinal rows, (supraoculars four) B 



Abdominal shields in twelve or more longitudinal rows C 



loner aspect of heel with spinous tubercles D 



No species belonging to any of these groups exists in the nearctic region ; 

 there their place is supplied by an extensive development of the genus Cnemido- 

 phorus. Section A (embracing eight species) is characteristic of northwestern 

 South America and Mexico, though two of the species, forming a subgroup, 

 are West Indian. The latter seems to be allied to Cnemidophorus through the 

 West Indian and South American species of the latter, while the connection of 

 that genus with the former subgroup is maintained by some of the Cnemido- 

 phori of the North American desert.*. Ameiva guttata approximates in size 

 •and coloration to section B. With A. u n d u 1 a t a it marks the northern limit 

 of the genus on the American continent, — viz., about the latitude of Vera Cruz. 

 Of sections B, C and D, eight are insular, five continental. Of the former, 

 80 far as is yet ascertained, two species appear to be peculiar to Cuba, one to 

 New Providence, one to Sombrero, one to Jamaica, one to Santa Cruz. One 

 species is said to be common to Hayti, Porto Rico, St. Thomas, Santa Cruz and 

 Martinique. The continental A. surinamensis inhabits Trinidad : small 

 specimens from Paraguay closely resemble the young of the same. The genus 

 does not seem to occur on the Pacific slope of the Andes, unless the Cnemido- 

 phorus undulatus, mentioned by Giinther (Proc. Zool. Soc. April, 1860) 

 as having been brought from Guyaquil, belongs to it. 



In preparing the present synopsis, I have availed myself of the Erpetologie 

 Generale and the work of Dr. Gray. In the latter, an A. m u r i n a from 

 Surinam is mentioned, of which little can be ascertained. Prince Neuwied has 

 described (Rept. Brazil, p. 1 80) an A. c y a n o m e 1 a s from Southeastern Brazil, 

 to which I can only allude, on account of imperfections in the description. It 

 resembles A. eutropia, but belongs probably to section B. 



A 



I. Plates of the caudal whorls carinate superiorly. 



a. Median gular scales very large, plate-like. 



*Premaxillary teeth six or seven. 



A. quadrilineata Cope. 



Cnemidophorus quadrilineatus Hallow., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1860, p. 483, 

 Three supraorbitals, sometimes a minute posterior fourth ; marginal supra- 

 orbitals five, second very long. Occipitals three. Large gular scales nume- 

 rous, graduating into the smaller. Plates of the fold in two rows, six or eight 

 in the longest. Two antebrachial series, the posterior continuous with the 

 single brachial ; postbrachials large, one principal row. Four femoral rows 

 two complete tibial, the second and third shields of the external very large. 

 External digit equalling or exceeding extremity of internal. Preanal plates ia 

 a single series, the posterior largest. Above olive brown. Two narrow yellow 



1862.] 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



lines on each side; the superior from the superciliary margin, convergent on 

 the nuchal region; the inferior from the orbit, interrupted by the femur, con- 

 tinued on tlie base of the tail, bounded above and beneath by black. Inferior 

 lateral region blacli, greenish vermiculated. Back posteriorly varied with 

 black. Beneath greenish white. Total length 3 in. 4 lin. Body 1 in, 4 lin. 

 Hab. — Nicaragua. Mus. Smithsonian. 



A. pu 1 c h r a Hallowell, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860, p. 483. 



Three supraorbitals; six marginal supraorbitals, the second very long. 

 Lateral occipitals one on each side, bordered with irregular scales. Shields 

 of the mesoptychiura large. Brachial and antebrachial plates each in two rows, 

 the posterior of the former continuous with the anterior of the latter ; post- 

 brachials large. Twenty femoral pores. Three rows of plates on the tibia, 

 the inner not appearing on the inferior surface ; the outer composed of eight 

 transverse plates, the median three or four of nearly equal size. Preanal plates 

 in two longitudinal rows. Sole of the foot externally acutely tuberculous. 

 External digit not reaching to extremity of internal. On the rump brown; 

 proceeding anteriorly the shade of color becomes lighter, until upon the muzzle 

 it is ochraceous ; the whole is faintly tinged with olive. A deeper shade ex- 

 tends from the superior angle of the eye to above the groin, which is marked 

 by about twelve short, deep brown, vertical bands. These are bounded beneath 

 by a series of light dots which extend from the tympanum posteriorly. Sides 

 olivaceous; tail olivaceous, spotted with brown above. Total length 8 in. G lin. 



Jlab. — Nicaragua. Mus. Smitnsonian ; Acad. Philadelphia. 



'"*Premaxillary teeth nii^e. 

 A. e u t r p i a Cope. 



Three supraorbitals ; five marginal supraorbitals, the second rery long. 

 Three occipitals, bounded posteriorly by many irregular shields. Infralabials 

 large, five on each side ; median gulars four or six, very large : a single row of 

 eight or ten large plates upon the mesoptychium. One series of brachial and 

 one of antebractiial shields, continuous with each other; postbrachials large. 

 One very large subround median anal, entirely surrounded* by smaller plates. 

 Inferior femoral plates large, in three or four rows ; two rows of inferior tibials, 

 the external composed of six plates, of which the second is largest. Seventeen 

 to nineteen femoral pores. Digits strongly pectinate, the external equal to the 

 interual. Keels of the tail shields strong inferiorly as well as superiorly. 

 Above blackish brown with an olive tint. A blue-grey median band extends 

 from the occiput, and becomes broad and undulating in outline posteriorly 

 because of the dark shade which bounds it laterally becoming resolved into 

 spots. Two lateral narrow bluish gray lines, more or less interrupted, the 

 inferior reaching the groin. The median band in its prolongation to the muzzle 

 is light brown. Inferior surfaces light bluish green. Total length 11 in. 9 1. : 

 head and body 3 in. 9 1. 



jjab. — Region of the Truando, New Grenada. Discovered by Arthur Schott, 

 of Lieut. N. Michler's Expedition. Mus. Smithsonian, (Nos. 4320, 4325.) Acad. 

 Philadelphia. 



A. u n d u 1 a ta Gray, Catal. Liz. Brit. Mus. Dumeril, Catal. Method, pt. I, p. 113. 



Cnemidophorus undulatus Wiegm., Herp. Mex. 27. 



Three supraorbitals; five marginal supraorbitals, the second very long. Oc- 

 cipitals three, succeeded by irregular shields. Large gular plates transverse. 

 Plates of the mesoptychium in two rows. Two rows of antebrachial, one of 

 brachial plates; pustbrachial large. Five or six series of femoral plates; three 

 of tibial, the inner not visible from beneath. Preanals small, in two longitudinal 

 rows. Tubercles of ihe sole acute, outer digit not reaching extremity of inner. 

 Tail plates strongly keeled above and below. Twenty femoral pores. Olive brown 

 above, vermiculated with brown posteriorly, bounded on each side by a series 

 of triangular light bluish spots, (their apices directed downward,) which are 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



surroanded by a deep brown shade. Sametimes they are confluent and form a 

 loagitudioal band ; the apices prolonged may form vertical bands. Head 

 brownish. Beneath greenish white. Total length 11 in. ; head and body 3 in. 

 6 lin. 



Hab. — Honduras. Mus. Acad. Philadelphia. Dr. John L. Le Conte donor. 



Var. a, Wiegm. 



Sides with numerous short light bluish lines, imitating broken longitudinal 

 bands. Marginal supraoculars six, the third longest. Otherwise similar to the 

 ordinary variety. 



Hab. — Vera Cruz, Mexico. Mus. Smithsonian. Dr. C. Sartorius donor. 



aa. Median gular scales but little larger than those surrounding. 

 b. Premaxillary teeth eight. 

 A. guttata Cope. 



Cnemidophorus guttatus Wiegm., Herp. Mex. 29. Gray, Gatal. Brit. Mus. 22. 



Supraorbitals tbree, the two posterior sometimes isolated by granular scales 

 in males; marginal supraorbitals six, the third v^ry long. Nostril in the nasal 

 plate. Three occipicals, the median elongate. Postsymphyseal plate broader 

 than long. Three rows of plates upon the mesoptychium. Scales a little 

 larger than the intermandibular extend across the gular region. Three rows 

 of brachial plates continuous with two of antebrachials. Postbrachials mode- 

 rate, transverse. Femoral shields numerous; pores twenty to twenty-three. 

 Three series of tibial plates, none of the exierual series disproportionately large. 

 Extremities of external and internal digits equal. Tail keels moderate. Brown- 

 ish olive above; upon the superior la'.eral region a narrow brown band bor- 

 dered above with lighter. Irregular short yellow lines or spots are distributed 

 more or less distinctly in four loiigitudiuiil series from nape to rump. Tail 

 unspotted. In the female the lateral brown band is scarcely margined with 

 paler above. Total length 14 in. 6 lin.; head and body 4 in. 9 lin. 



Mab. — Vera Cruz, Mexico. Mus. Acad. Philadelphia. 



A. s a c k i i Cope. 



Cnemidophorus sacArw Wiegm , Herp. Mex. p. 28. Gray, Catal. Brit. Mus. 22. 



Supraorbitals four, posterior minute; marginal scales eight, the. anterior 

 three longer. Three occipitals. Three principal preanal plates. Femoral 

 pores twenty-two. Grajish olive; sides olive brown, margined above with a 

 pale longitudinal band, transversely banded with blackish brown. A second 

 narrow lateral band extending from beneath the orbit to the posterior part of 

 the side. Total length 15 in.; head and body 6 in. 



Hub. — Mexico. 



bb. Premaxillary teeth six. 

 A. t !E n i u r a Cope. 



Supraorbitals three; the marginal five, second longest. Nostril pierced in 

 the nasal plate. Five occipitals. Plates of the mesoptychium numerous. One 

 series of brachial, two of antebrachial, scarcely continuous. Postbrachials 

 small. Four series of large femoral plates, bounded by smaller anteriorly and 

 posteriorly. Three tibial rows, two upon the inferior face of the limb ; the ex- 

 ternal composed of seven plates, the third very large. Larger preanals are two 

 transverse marginal, two or three longitudinal median. External digit extending 

 beyond the internal. Lateral tail platen smooth, superior keeled. Femoral pores 

 fifteen. Above brown. A narrow yellowish line extends from the superciliary 

 margin to a nearer or more distaot point upon the tail. This is bordered above 

 by a black band, three times its width, which is sometimes faintly margined 

 above with yellowish. Sides black as far as a yellowish line which extends 

 from the superior border of the ear to the groin, and thence with increased 

 width for some distance upon the tail : on the latter region it is bounded below 

 1862.] 




04 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



bj a black band. A third and inferior pale line is sometimes seen on the side,, 

 a space above the margins of the external abdominal plates. The latter with 

 the femora and tibise are sometimes spotted with whitish upon a dark ground. 

 Beneath yellowish white. Total length 10 in. 6 lin. ; head and body 3 in. 



Hah. — Hayti, (near Jeremie.) Mus. Compar. Zoology Cambridge, No. 1503.) 

 Acad. Philada. 



This species is intimately allied to the A. lineolata D. &B., also an inhabi- 

 tant of Hayti. The latter is peculiar in having shields upon the superior pos- 

 terior fore-arm, and in its keelless tail plates. In t ae n i u r a these keels are weak. 

 The coloration of 1 i n e o 1 a t a is different from that of the present species. 

 Our group A, of which A. p ul c h ra may be regarded as type, is connected with 

 B, A. surinamensis type, through this species in the former group, and A. 

 polops in the latter. The five occipital plates, elongate form, and pattern 

 of coloration, are indications of this in the t ae n i u r a . 



II. Scales of the caudal whorls smooth superiorly. 

 A. lineolata Dum. et Bibr., Erpetol. Gen. v. p. 119. 



Nostril pierced in the nasal plate. One anterior series of seven plates upon 

 the brachium, several posterior series, replacing the granules which exist in 

 other species. Two anterior antebrachial series. Postbrachial or elbow plates 

 present, rhombic. Five series of inferior femorals, two of inferior tibials. 

 Three large preanals surrounded by smaller scales. Fifteen femoral pores. 

 Head above brown, laterally varied with black and white. Superior regions 

 of body black with nine longitudinal lines, the median dorsal double at the 

 middle of its length. Of the lateral lines, one is from the occiput, one from the 

 siipercilium, one from the eye, one from beneath the tympanic orifice. Irregular 

 white lines upon the arm and the posterior foot. A light posterior femoral 

 band continuous with one on the tail: the latter member wiih other indistinct 

 longitudinal bands. Total length (?young) 9 in. 7 lin.; body 2 in. 2 lin. 

 i/ai.— Hayti. 



B. 



I. Three rows of tibial shields, two appearing on the inferior face. 



a. Frontal plate one: no palatine teeth. 



b. Three supraorbitals ; premaxillary teeth ten. 



A. thoracica Cope. 



Anterior and superior temporal and postoccipital regions irregularly squamous. 

 Five marginal supraoculars, second longest. Nostril in the nasal plate. Median 

 gular scales minute; those of the mesoptychium larger, in six rows. Three 

 (iwo small, one large) antebrachial series, scarcely continuous with brachial 

 row. Postbrachials small in three short rows. Femoral plates numerous ; 

 eighteen femoral pores. External tibial plates seven, very wide, second, third 

 and fourth largest, third broad, fourth narrow, transverse. External digit 

 extending beyond extremity of internal. A slight tendency to acumination in 

 the heel scales of some specimens. Preanals a series of three or four large 

 marginal, one or two large median, longitudinally arranged. Color above 

 brown tinged with olive. Two indistinct light bands — the superior from the 

 supercilium, the inferior from the superior margin of the auricular opening — 

 enclose a black band, which is continued some distance upon the base of the 

 tail, with its inferior light border. Beneath greenish or yellowish white, the 

 pectoral and gular regions more or less black. The female differs in having 

 the brown of the back lighter and marked with a narrow median line. The 

 black upon the throat is also sometimes wanting. The size is much less, being 

 in total length 9 in. 2 lin. ; of head and body 3 in. The male, 15 in.; head 

 and body 4 in. 6 lin. 



Ilab. — New Providence Island, Bahamas. Mus. Philada. Acad. (Dr. H. C. 

 Wood, Jr., Coll.) Salem, Mass. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



This species is most nearly related to a u b e r i of Cuba and p 1 e i of Ilajti. 

 From the former it differs in the absence of spurs upon the heel, in the com- 

 plete black pale-bordered lateral band and the black of the antero-inferior 

 regions. The same peculiarities of coloration separate it from the p I e i, which 

 has in further distinction the median gular scales a little larger, and the tail 

 spotted. This species is very abundant in New Providence, and, like the others, 

 is very swift. The most readj' way of obtaining them is by shooting. 



hb. Four supraorbital plates. 

 A. 1 a 6 t a Cope. 



?A. guttata Gray, Catal. Liz. Brit. Mus. p. 18, not Ctiemid. ffu/tafits'W'iegva. 



Nostril in the nasal suture: common suture of fronto- nasal plates elongate. 

 Five marginal supraoculars, first and second longest; equal. Nine preniasillary 

 teeth. Three gular folds; gular scales all large, the posterior largest. Plates 

 of the posterior fold larger than those of the median. Two series of ante- 

 brachials continuous with three of brachial plates ; postbrachials large, irregular. 

 Scales of the dorsal region large. External and internal digits very short, the 

 latter extending beyond the former, its claw short, curved. Posterior preanals 

 largest, one or two large anterior. Eight series of femoral plates ; fifteen to 

 seventeen pores. Six or seven external tibials, the second and third very large. 

 Male, above olive, black-speckled; sides dark with cross rows of black-edged 

 white spots. Female ratht-r bright olivaceous, with a light brown pqle-bordered 

 band upon each side. The superior pale border very indistinct, extending 

 from the temporal angle, the inferior a bright band bordered with black 

 beneath, extending from the middle of the tympanic orifice some distance upon 

 the tail. Head brown above. Under surfaces yellowish, external belly plates 

 black spotted, external tibial plates and tail bluish varied. Total length 15 in.; 

 excluding the tail, 5 in. 



Hub. — Near Rio Janeiro ; according to Gray, Demerara and Pernambuco. 

 Mus. Compar. Zoology, Cambridge, No. 1483. 



In the above description the colors of the male are taken from Dr. Gray. I 

 have presumed that the two female specimens described belong to the species 

 (/uttata, oa account of their near resemblance to the surinaraensis and 

 their difference from it in the tibial shields and anal plates. Dr. Gray's diagnosis 

 furnishes nothing else to base an identification upon. This species further 

 differs from the surinamensis in the larger dorsal scales and longer 

 common fronto-nasal suture. 



A. pi ei Dum. et Bibr., Erpetol. Gen. v. 



Median gular scales a little larger than those surrounding; marginal supra- 

 oculars five or six, second longest. One large, one or two small series of ante- 

 brachials, separated by granular scales from the large braclii<il series; post- 

 brachials numerous, irregular. Two large posterior preanals, one large median, 

 and several smaller amerior and peripheral. Exterior digit equalling or extend- 

 ing beyond the interior. Seven exterior tibial plates, the last very minute, 

 second and third very large. Femoral pldtes numerous, the pores sixteen. 

 Premaxillary teeth six, eight or ten ; superior maxillaries twenty-one in the 

 adult, in the oldest specimens three or four posterior only imperfectly bi- or tri- 

 cuspid ; those anterior to the latter are cylindrical with obtusely rounded crowns ;. 

 the most anterior conic, curved. In younger individuals the number of com- 

 pressed tricuspid teeth is greater, (tiiough the total number of leeih is less.) 

 until in the youngest all but the •■ canines " conform to tliis standard of the 

 generic structure. General color above, brown olivaceous, the posterior ex- 

 tremities, tail and posterior dorsal region more or less distinctly spotted with, 

 yellowish. Sides vertically banded with greenish or yellowish ; superiorly 

 there is usually a series of black spots, which are sometimes only present ante- 

 riorly, sometimes confluent into a longitudinal band. Beneath greenish straw- 



1862.] 6 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



colored, the denticulations and tubercles of the palms and toes tipped with 

 brown. Total length, 20 in. ; head and body to vent 6 in. 6 lin. 



Hab. — St. Thomas, Santa Cruz, Porto Rico; according to the Erpetologie 

 Generate, Martinique and Hayti. Mus. Philadelphia Academy. Smithsonian. 

 Compar. Zoology, Cambridge. 



Two specimens from Porto Rico have the lateral blacks spots larger, with a 

 trace of a superior series posteriorly. In this animal the adult presents but 

 three obtuse-crowned median maxillary teeth. This difference between the Porto 

 Rican form and that of St. Thomas appears of importance when we recollect the 

 relation which exists between the genera Ameiva and Tupinambis (Teius Gr.) 

 in this respect. Indeed, although the present species is closely allied in super- 

 ficial characters to the A. a u b e r i and thoracica, were it not for the re- 

 pressed development just alluded to in its Porto Rican form, it would appear 

 proper to regurd the significauce of this dentitional peculiarity as fully generic. 

 Should the Porto Rican form bpgin to develop cylindrical and obtuse-crowned 

 teeth at an earlier age, so as finally to exclude the compressed tricuspid, this 

 peculiarity would become the index of &. definable generic group; or should 

 the time of the appearance of these teeth be finally postponed to a period beyond 

 the usual limit of life, the same separation would be the result, the Porto Rican 

 form remaining as a distinct species of Ameiva. The anatomical relation be- 

 tween these lacertian forms is certainly identical with that existing between 

 Protonopsis and Megalobatrachus, Siredon and Amblystoma; and if a gene- 

 ric connection between the former can be reasonably suspected, (and geo- 

 logical as well as morphological considerations support this view), it might be 

 as justly inferred in the case of the latter. The largest shields of the external 

 tibial series reach a considerable development in the Porto Rican specimens; 

 hence I have suspected the Ameiva scutata of Dr. Gray might belong here. 

 One or two of the St. Thomas specimens exhibit a development of these plates 

 fully equal. Whether all belong to the true A. plei Dum. & Bibr., can only 

 be settled by those who can compare Martinique specimens with those from the 

 localities in question. 



Var. e x s u 1 . 



This form differs in possessing a narrow bright yellow band on each side, 

 extending from the superciliary ridge to a point on the anterior part of the tail. 

 The anterior extremity extended backward exceeds the extremity of the ap- 

 pressed femur. Total length 7 in. 6 lin. ; exclusive of tail, 2 in. 1 lin. (Pro- 

 bably young.) 



Hab. — Water Island. Mas. Smithsonian. 



A. p 1 o p s Cope. 



Seven or eight marginal supraorbitals. Median gular scales little larger 

 than the lateral ; scales of the neck-fold moderate. One large and several 

 small series of antebrachial plates not continuous with the short brachial 

 series ; postbracbials distinct. Preanals in two parallel longitudinal series. 

 Femoral plates numerous ; pores nineteen. Tibial series two, the internal 

 small ; the external composed of seven plates, fourth largest, third next. Ex- 

 ternal digit extending much beyond the internal. Above olive brown; a 

 brownish black band, anteriorly light bordered above, extends from the 

 superior border of the auricular opening to the crural region. This is bordered 

 beneath by a narrow light line which terminates above the femur. Below this 

 is a brown band, whicb is separated from a brown line on the exterior belly 

 plate by a narrow yellow line. Tibia with an anterior light line. Femora 

 behin(d light banded continuously with the tail. The latter member appear? 

 to be faintly annulated. Belly light greenish. Total length 1 in. 2 lin. ; ex- 

 clusive of tail, 2 in. 6 lin. 



Hab. — St. Croix, West Indies. Mus. Smithsonian. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 67 



aa. Frontal plates two ; palatine teeth present. 

 A. bifrontata Cope. 



Three posterior supraoculars, surrounded with granular scales in the male. 

 Marginal supraoculars five, two anterior elongate. Frontal shield divided 

 transversely. An indistinct longitudinal frontal carina. Posterior gular scales 

 larger than the anterior. Two series of antebrachial scales, continuous with 

 one brachial. Postbrachials large, transverse. Marginal preanals largest. 

 Femorals numerous; the pores fifteen to nineteen. Plates of the median tibial 

 series not small ; nine plates in the external, third and fourth largest. External 

 digit not equalling the tip of the internal. Tail plates narrow, strongly keeled. 

 Above brownish pea-green, tail paler; in young specimens traces of two lateral 

 and one median pale line, sometimes visible posteriorly in adults. Occasionally 

 a few brown spots upon the rump. External belly plates varied with blue and 

 white. Inferior surfaces yellow. In females the anterior supraocular is in 

 contact with the second, the lateral longitudinal bands are more distinct and 

 enclose one of a deeper shade, and there are two rows of deep brown spots on 

 the posterior part of the dorsal region. Tail spotted with brown above. Total 

 length 14 in. ; head and body, 4 in. 6 lin. 



Hab. — St. Thomas, W. Indies. Mus. Philada. Acad. 



The specimens described as females are labelled as having come from New 

 Grenada, probably incorrectly. 



II. Four rows of tibial shields, three appearing on the inferior surface. Ex- 

 ternal posterior digit not reaching the extremity of the internal. 



A. praesignis Cope. 



Cnemidophorus prasignis Bd. & Gd., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1S52, p. 129. 



Five marginal supraorbitals ; external occipitals small. Posterior gular 

 scales larger than anterior. Two series of antebrachials continuous with the 

 brachial. Postbrachials numerous, subhexagonal, anterior claws very elongate. 

 Eight femoral series medially; pores thirteen to seventeen. Eight plates in 

 the external tibial series, second and third largest. Two posterior, a median, 

 and sometimes an anterior preanal. 9 Deep brownish olivaceous above ; a 

 broad median dorsal band, bounded on each side by tran,3verse black bars, 

 which extend to a black border of a yellowish lateral line which extends from 

 the temporal ridge. An inferior yellow line from the auricular border, sepa- 

 rated from the superior by a broad black band, which is traversed by a single 

 row of yellow spots. Sides and extremities black-green spotted. Tail green, 

 black spotted ; two lateral light lines anteriorly. In the male the median band 

 is better defined. The light superior border of the lateral black band vanishes 

 posteriorly; the inferior is less distinct : over all are about seven longitudinal 

 series of yellow spots. Beneath pale greenish yellow. Length of head and 

 body 5 in* (Tail mutilated.) 



Hab. — Panama.* Mus. Smithsonian. Philada. Acad. 



The coloration is the principal means of distinguishing this species from that 

 succeeding. 



A. surinamensis (rray, Catal. Liz. Brit. Mus. p. 18. 



Lacerta ameiva, L. lateristriga et L. trisiriata Spix, Anim. Braz. tab. xxiii. et 

 xxiv. 182. 



Teius ameiva Merr., Nieuw. Zool. Braz. Rept. p. 170. 



Ameiva vulgaris Licht., Dum. & Bibr. Erp. Gen. 



Two series of antibrachial plates, nine in the exterior, which is continuous 

 with the brachial; postbrachials irregular, subquadrate. Larger scales extend- 

 ing across the posterior gular region ; those of the neck-fold in about four rows. 



* " Said to be abundant at Para." — Hallowell, Free, Acad. Nat. Sci. 483, 1860. Panama, 

 not Para, is meant, 



1862.J 




68 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



A few large plates exterior to the superior part of the exterior tibial row. Of 

 the latter there are eight or nine, second, third and fourth largest. Posterior 

 preanal plates largest. Above olivaceous, more or less vermiculated with 

 black upon the head, nape and anterior extremities. Sides of a much darker 

 shade, which is well defined superiorly, and is crossed by vertical series of yel- 

 low black-bordered spots. External belly and anterior femoral plates j'ellow 

 and black varied. In the female the lateral shade takes the form of a band. 

 In a large specimen from Venezuela the anterior regions and extremities are 

 light brown, speckled with black on the head and neck; the lateral vertical 

 spots are upon a ground similar to that of the back. This is Lacerta aineiva, 

 figured by Spix. Total length 20 in. 6 lin. ; head and body 7 in. 



Hab. — Surinam, Venezuela, Bolivia, Brazil, ("south to Rio Janeiro." — A^eu- 

 tvied), ?Paraguay, ?Trinidad. Mus. Philada. Acad. Washington. 



C. 



A. corvina Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philada. p. 312, 1861. 



Premaxillary teeth ten. Median occipital plate short ; position of external 

 occipitals longitudinal divergent. Four continuous supraorbitals ; marginal 

 plates five, anterior two longest. Median gular scales small, those of the me- 

 soptychium scarcely larger. Anterior half of antebrachium with a series of 

 plates ; brachium without plates, coarsely scaled ; postbrachials a little larger. 

 Abdominal plates in twelve series. Median preanals largest. Large anterior 

 femoral plates upon the terminal portion of femur; pores in (^ 36, in 9 32. 

 Tibial series four, eight or nine in the external, of which three or four are of 

 nearly equal size. External digit extending beyond internal. Tail plates 

 weakly keeled. General color black; under surface of belly and tail glaucous 

 green, sometimes tinged with yellow. Total length 16 in. 2 lin.; head and 

 body 4 in. 10 lin. 



Ilab. — Sombrero Island, West Indies. Mus. Philada. Acad. Smithsonian. 

 Compar. Zoology Cambridge. 



A. punctata Grai/, Catal. Liz. Brit. Mus. p. 17. 



Postbrachial plates rather large, rhombic. Ventral shields in fourteen rows. 

 Exterior tibial series seven, the second and third largest, nearly equal. Olive 

 with black wavy lines ; sides darker with white spots upon the lower part: 

 head in spirits pale reddish. 



Hab. — Demerara. 



A. major Dum. ei Bibr., Erp. Gen. v. p. 117. 



Median gular scales larger than the external, equal to those of the mesop- 

 tychium. Brachial plates large, separated from the antebrachials, which are near 

 the fore-foot; posihumerals granular. External tibial plates large. Ab- 

 dominal plates in from fourteen to eighteen series. Preanal plates numerous, 

 not large. Above olivaceous, beneath yellowish or greenish ; in the young two 

 light lines on each side, the superior from the temporal ridge. Total length 20 

 in. 7 lin. ; head and body 8 in. 2 lin. 



Hab. — Cayenne. Trinidad. 



The antebrachial plates of this species seem to be similar to those of A. 

 corvina. 



D. 

 A. a u b e r i Cod. et Bibr., De la Sagra's Hist. Cuba Kept. p. 74. 



Abdominal shields in ten or twelve rows. Occipitals five : marginal supra- 

 oculars five or six, posterior three small ; the superior supraoculars three, 

 sometimes a rudimentary fourth. Temporal region with superior and anterior 

 marginal plates. Premaxillary teeth ten. Gular scales equal; plates of the 

 fold large, in four rows. The antebrachial series of plates bounded within by 

 smaller shields; brachials continuous with the former, little dilated trans- 

 versely. Postbrachials large, transverse. Femoral series eight or nine. Pores 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



fourteen to sixteen. One or two anterior preanals larger than any of the four 

 or six marginal. Two series of tibial shields, the internal imperfect, six plates 

 in the external, the second and third very large. External digit extending 

 beyond the hip of the internal. General color light olivaceous brown, shaded 

 with yellow on the head and extremities. A series of irregular spots, forming 

 a broken baud, extends from above the axillary region to the groin. Beneath 

 yellowish. Total length 13 in.; head and body, 4 in. 



Hab. — Cuba. Mus. Philada. Academy. Washington. Cambridge. 



A. trilineata Gray, Catal. Liz. Brit. Mus. 19. 



Supraoculars three, marginals five. Gular scales minute ; four series of 

 moderate plates on the antero-pectoral fold. Temporal region bounded above 

 and anteriorly by plates. Antebrachial and brachial plates continuous, the 

 latter little dilated. Postbrachials large, dilated. Ten rows of abdominal 

 plates. Eight series of femoral plates; fifteen pores; median preanals larger 

 than posterior. Three tibial series, seven in the external, the second and third 

 very large. External posterior digit extending beyond the internal. Above 

 olivaceous, with a median yellowish band, which covers a width of four scales 

 anteriorly, six posteriorly. A light lateral line extending from the temporal 

 angle, bounded beneath by a more or less irregular black band, and above, in 

 adult specimens, by another, very narrow and irregular in its superior outline, 

 A light line extends from the ear to the groin, and a trace of a third is some- 

 times seen beneath it Sides posteriorly, and anterior and posterior extremi- 

 ties coarsely vermiculated and varied with black and light olive. Gular and 

 prethoracic regions black. Total length 10 in. ; head and body 3 in. 



Hab. — Cuba. Mus. Washington. Phila. Acad. 



This animal appears to be identical with that described by MM. Cocteau and 

 Bibron, and by the authors of the Erpetologie Generale, as the young of the A. 

 auberi. Small specimens of the latter, however, resemble the adult closely, 

 while the trilineata reaches a size nearly equal to that of the full grown 

 auberi. It nevertheless offers no distinctive marks beyond those of colora- 

 tion. We should therefore suspect it to be the female of the latier, were it not 

 that some of the specimens appear to be males. While the opinion expressed 

 in the Hist, de I'lsle Cuba is entitled to much respect, I accept for the present 

 that of Dr. J. E. Gray as most tenable. 



Compared with the female of A. thoracic a, it differs as follows: The 

 continuity of the brachials and antebrachials is not interrupted by small scales ; 

 the postbrachials are larger; there is a single ^ar^e external palmar tubercle 

 instead of two of equal size. The vermiculated banding of the extremities does 

 not exist in the thoracica, and the vertebral band is much narrower. There 

 are no calcaneal spines. 



A. dorsalis Gray, Ann. Nat. Hist. i. p. 277. 



A. Sloanei Dum. & IBibr., v. 107 



Five occipitals, all short, especially the median. Temporal region bounded 

 anteriorly and superiorly by plates. Three supraorbitals, five marginals, the 

 second longest. Median gulars small; scales of the mesoptychis moderate, 

 in five rows. Premaxillary teeth ten, the external on each side sometimes 

 wanting. Brachial plates small, subbexagonal. Antebrachials usually not 

 continuous with them, sometimes confined to the terminal portion of the fore- 

 arm. Postbrachials large, transverse. Posterior preanals largest; one or two 

 anterior plates. Femoral plates in nine to eleven rows medially ; pores twenty- 

 three to twenty-five. Three tibial series, the internal minute, the median 

 incomplete, the external of six or seven plates, the second, third and fourth 

 large. Above olivaceous, darkest superiorly. A median vitta commences at 

 the occiput and extends to the crural region ; in the former region it is narrow, 

 in the latter it occupies nearly the whole dorsal surface. Four longitudinal 

 series of spots upon each side, those of the two superior elongate, sometimes 



1862.] 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



forming bands. In the female these bound a more or less irregular black band ; 



another dark band margins the dorsal vitta. Beneath greenish white. Total 



length 14 in. ; head and body 4 in. 6 lin. 



Hub. — Jamaica. Mus. Philada. Academy. Smithsonian, (No. 5770.) 



The short occipitais, the small brachials and shortened series of antebrachials 



of this species, are repeated in the A. c o r v i n a . 



II. 



Eunectes n otse u s . 



General form elongate ; tail one-eighth of the total length. Muzzle de- 

 pressed, broadly rounded. Rostral plate twice as broad as high, its labial 

 sutures divergent, straight. Of the three nasal plates, the two superior are 

 trapezoid, the inferior three times as long as wide. Loreal, preocular and 

 superciliary large, their superior border nearly continuous. They are bounded 

 superiorly by three large elongate plates which embrace a median series of 

 three smaller rhombic plates. Of the former, the posterior are as long as the 

 anterior, the median shorter. Of the latter, the two anterior are in contact, 

 the posterior not smaller, sometimes isolated anteriorly by the exterior plates. 

 In addition to the superciliary and preocular, the orbital ring is formed by 

 five small plates, of which the two anterior are in contact with the sixth, 

 seventh and eighth superior labials, without the intervention of a second sub- 

 orbital series. Superior labials thirteen, the anterior but little higher than 

 the rest. Scales large, broad as long, in forty-five rows on the thickest part 

 of the body. Maxillary teeth 15 on each side; mandibulars 17. Urosteges 

 59. Total length 9 ft. 4 in. Of tail 1 ft. 4 in. 



Above, light yellowish brown anteriorly ; upon the middle and posterior 

 parts of the body, dark brown. A deep brown band commences upon each 

 temple, and unites with its fellow on the middle of the muzzle. A similar 

 band commences at the eye, and extends beyond the canthus of the mouth. 

 A broad median head band arises between the orbits, and extending upon 

 the neck becomes zigzag, and is finally broken into transverse blackish spots 

 which extend to the end of the tail. There are fifty-three distinct spots on the 

 body, seventeen on the tail. They extend over twelve scales transversely, and 

 are two scales apart. Two bands commence on each side of the neck, the supe- 

 rior is continuous for a short distance, and is then broken into longitudinal 

 spots which alternate with the dorsal. The inferior band is soon broken and is 

 merged into two or three very irregular series of lateral black spots. Belly 

 yellow, irregularly spotted with black, outlining two longitudinal streaks. 



Habitat. — Paraguay River and confluents. Mus. Acad. Phila. Smithsonian 

 (No. 4707). Capt. Page's Exped. 



This serpent is one of the largest in America ; in its proportions it is rather 

 more slender than the E. murina or anaconda, which attains a greater size 

 than any of the Boas, and equals or exceeds the largest Pythons. 



It also diff"ers from the murina in the greater size of the posterior three 

 head plates, especially the median ; in the immediate contact of the orbitar 

 ring of plates with the labial shields, and the less narrow and elevated form of 

 the latter anteriorly. The dorsal scales are larger, and in fewer rows. Both 

 the ground color, and the distribution of spots upon it, are quite difi"erent 

 from those of the murina. 



Homalochilus m u 1 t i s e c t u s. 



Head rather elongate, very distinct from the neck, the plates of its superior 

 surface irregular, not large. Three small superciliaries on each side, sepa- 

 rated by five longitudinal series of frontal scales. Rostral plate five sided, 

 those in contact with the labials shortest. Intcrnasals confluent with the pre- 

 nasal (as sometimes occurs in H. s t r i a t u s), their common suture very short. 

 Prefrontals large, their common suture as long as the posterior border of each. 

 Posterior to these a pair of transversely oval postfrontals (sometimes divided). 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



Postoculars five, small; prcoculars two. the superior vertical, the inferior the 

 last of a series of three or four cut from the summits of the labials. Two 

 loreals, anterior larger. Superior labials sixteen or seventeen, eighth and 

 ninth entering orbit. Inferior, twenty ; six pair of scales separated by the 

 mental groove. Scales of the body in sixty longitudinal rows, the lateral 

 smallest. Anal plate entire. Tail slender, contained six and a half times in 

 the total length. The latter amounts, in the only specimen, a young one, to 

 26 inches ; head and body 22 inches. General color above, brown, with about 

 one hundred yellowish cross bands bordered posteriorly with darker brown. 

 Near the middle of the body these are about five scales apart ; posteriorly 

 they are nearer together. One, sometimes two, series of irregular spots exist 

 on each side, which are confluent anteriorly into one imperfect longitudinal 

 band. Two narrow dark bands posterior to the eye, separated bj' about five 

 temporal scales. Beneath yellow, marked with irregular longitudinal lines 

 posteriorly. 



Habitat. — Mus. Academy Xat. Sciences, from Messrs. Smith 



and Stewardson. 



Homalochilus strigilatus. 



Head rather stouter than in other species of the genus, distinct. One large 

 superciliary plate on each side, separated from the other by two, or some- 

 times one, large shield. Anterior to these are two transverse series of irregu- 

 lar plates, in front of which are two elliptical postfrontal shields in contact. 

 Between these and the supranasals is a pair of transverse prefrontals ; their 

 posterior border is curved, parallel with the anterior, much longer than their 

 common suture. Both nasal plates distinct. One loreal, which is a little 

 shorter than in stria tu s. Two preoculars, the superior nearly as long as 

 high, the inferior narrow, bounded below by two labial plates. No small 

 plates anterior to the latter. Eye small, less than is usual in H. striatus, 

 bounded beneath by the seventh and eighth, sometimes the ninth superior 

 labial plate. The latter number fifteen. Inferior labials eighteen, the an- 

 terior six elongate. Scales in fifty-one longitudinal rows, the median lateral, 

 smallest. Anal plate entire. Tail 9 in., in a specimen 67 in. long, i. e. one 

 8-5th. 



General color above, dark brown, almost black posteriorly. One or two 

 series of transverse, short, dark bordered pale spots extend throughout the 

 total length, or become obsolete posteriorly. The lateral ground color is 

 paler ; it is sometimes separated from that of the back by a zigzag outline. 

 A lateral scries of brown light bordered rhombic spots is converted upon the 

 anterior fourth of the body into a longitudinal band, extending past the can- 

 thus of the mouth and through the orbit. Posterior to the latter^ a light band 

 bounds it above. Muzzle paler. Beneath brownish white, becoming darker 

 posteriorly; a median dark band beneath the tail. 



Habitat. — Id. New Providence, Bahamas. Mus. Academy Natural Sciences. 

 From Dr. H. C. Wood, Jr.'s, collection. 



Briefly, H. striatus of Hayti, differs from this species in its two supercili- 

 aries, in its subloreal, in its cross bands, and absence of the lateral and sub- 

 caudal stripes. 



Tachynectes c h r y o s t i c t u s. 



Scales elongate, poreless, in twenty-three rows, all keeled except sometimes 

 the first. Superior angles of the nasal plates in contact, one trapezoid loreal 

 as high as long, one narrow preocular not reaching the vertical ; two post- 

 oculars in contact with the occipital and one temporal. Occipitals short, their 

 common suture scarcely as long as the vertical ; the lateral borders of the 

 latter are parallel, elongate. Superior labials eight, eye over the fourth ; 

 sixth and seventh largest. Twelve inferior labials, five posterior small. Anal 

 plate divided ; tail one-third the total length, i. e., in the type specimen 5 in. 

 in 15. 



1862.] 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Color above as far 'as the fourth row of 'scales on each side, reddish 

 brown, with five alternating series of indistinct quadrate spots of a darker 

 hue. Sides light yellowish brown. Beneath dark chocolate, near the middle 

 of the body every third or fourth gastrostege one-half yellow. Posteriorly 

 these spots are smaller and closer together, upon the gular region they form a 

 broken longitudinal series, which is crossed by a similar series extending 

 from one angle of the mouth to the other, and by an anterior one upon the chin. 

 Tail scarcely spotted beneath. Head light brown, a yellow shade upon the 

 posterior superior labials. A median longitudinal nuchal band. 



Habitat. — Amazon. Mus. Smithsonian (No. 6007). From Lieut. Henderson's 

 collection. 



I have i)laced this species in Tachynectes, Fitz. on account of its slender 

 body and elongate tail ; in all respects it is a Helicops as defined by Dumeril. 



Hypsirhynchus s c a 1 a r i s. 



Scales in nineteen longitudinal rows, thin, not elongate, with a single large 

 pore at the extremity, not median. Head lanceolate flat, the muzzle slightly, 

 the superciliary plates very much, elevated. Rostral plate transverse, oblique 

 from the pi-ominence of the muzzle, its lateral and superior outlines continu- 

 ous, curved. Vertical plate more than twice as long as broad, the lateral 

 borders concave ; superciliaries broad arched ; occipitals elongate, rounded 

 posteriorly, the median posterior emargination nearly acute angled. Nasals 

 two, nostril principallj' in the anterior ; posterior larger, its posterior outline 

 oblique. Loreal none. Preocular single, longer than high, not reaching the 

 vertical. Postoculars two, the inferior half the size of the superior, and in 

 .contact with an elongate temporal and the angle of the occipital. Eight 

 superior labials, second elongate, third, fourth and fifth entering the orbit, 

 -sixth largest. Ten inferior labials, sixth largest; post genials longer than 

 pregenials. Anal plate bifid ; tail elongate (mutilated). Length of head and 

 body nineteen inches. 



General color dark brown, the result of close punctulations on a paler 

 ground. A darker band extends upon the third, fourth and fifth rows of 

 scales on each side, throughout the length of the body, though indistinct 

 posteriorly. The dorsal space enclosed is crossed by numerous incomplete 

 bands of the same shade, at distances of three or four scales. The lateral 

 band is more distinct anteriorly, where it is bounded beneath by a nar- 

 row yellowish vitta extending from the canthus of the mouth. A yellowish 

 band extends through the e3'e. Superior labial, mental and gular regions, 

 blackish brown. A brown spot upon each frontal plate, longitudinal vermi- 

 culations on the plates posterior to them. Beneath brownish yellow, thickly 

 punctulated. , 



Habitat. — Hayti, (near Jeremie). Mus. Compar. Zoology, Cambridge (Xo. 

 1517). Dr. A. F. Weinland donor. 



In the present species the teeth are widely spaced and become longer on the 

 posterior portions of the superior maxillary bone. The absence of the loreal 

 plate, and the pattern of coloration, separate it from the H. f e r o x, Gthr., of 

 Barbadoes, the only other species of the genus. 



Pliocercus eiiryzonus. 



Dentition diacranterian, as in P. ?e q u a 1 i s Salvin.* Head broad posteriorly 

 and at the muzzle. Rostral plate low, the nasal t^utures long, straight. Com- 

 mon prefrontal suture less than half that of the postfrontals. Vertical broad, 

 sides convergent ; obtuse angled behind. Occipitals well developed, rounded 

 posteriorly; temporals one large, (narrow,) four small. Nasals two, loreal 



*This author spells the generic name Pleiocercus ; a more consisteat orthography 

 would be Pleiokerkos. 'J'hose who prefer the unlatinised method should also write liua- 

 noura, skutale, kaloura, etc. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



well developed ; superior preoculars not reaching vertical, the inferior want- 

 ing on one side. Superciliaries very narrow. Two postoculars. Superior 

 labials nine, fifth and sixth entering the orbit. Ten inferior labials. Scales 

 in seventeen rows, rather lanceolate medially. Total length 23 in. 9 lin ; the 

 tail 9 in. S lin., rather more than two-fifths. Ground color red. This is 

 crossed on the body by nineteen black rings, which leave it in spaces of only 

 a scale in width above, and one to three gastrosteges beneath. On the head 

 the ground only appears as a spot on the second and third labials, one on the 

 middle of each superciliary, one near the anterior angle of the vertical, and 

 one on the common occipital suture ; also a band extending from the se'^enth 

 and eighth superior labials posteriorly to the occipitals. Anterior and pos- 

 terior inferior labials black. Tail with eleven black rings broader than those 

 on the body. 



Hab. — Region of the Truando, New Grenada. Mus. Smithsonian. (No. 430-3,) 

 Lieut. Michler's Exploring and Surveying Expedition Coll. 



Philodryas latirostris. 



Muzzle obtuse, depressed, rather broad. Rostral shield elevated, rounded 

 above. Prefontals broader than long, postfrontals broad. Vertical narrow, 

 not twice as long as its anterior breadth, the lateral borders concave ; occipi- 

 tals not elongate ; temporals five, the anterior and largest narrow, in contact 

 with the whole posterior border of the inferior postocular. Preocular grooved 

 so as to appear divided, in contact with the vertical ; loral parallel sided ; 

 prenasal larger than postnasal. Eight superior oculars, fourth and fifth enter- 

 ing orbit, the posterior three as high as, or higher, than long. Pregeneials 

 longer than postgeneials. Scales smooth, in nineteen longitudinal rows. 

 Gastrosteges not angulated. Total length 3 in. 2 lin. ; the tail 6 in. 6 lin. 



Green, paler beneath, yellowish on the mental and superior labial regions. 

 A narrow black band from the eye along the borders of the upper labials. 



Hab. — Paraguay. Mus. Smithsonian, (No. 5S11,) Capt. Page Coll. 



This species has a broader muzzle than P. viridissimus GiJnth. The 

 vertical plate is more elongate than inP. crassifrons Cope. From both 

 it difi'ers in the contact of the latter with the preocular, and in the absence of 

 angulation of the gastrosteges. 



laltris vul tu sa. 



Char. gen. — Form elongate, principally on account of the development of the 

 tail. Head moderately distinct, a little elongate, rather massive. Eye mode- 

 rate, pupil round. The nine normal cephalic shields. Rostral normal, not 

 prominent. Two nasals, obe loreal, one preocular. Anal plate divided. 

 Scales smooth, the pores double. Anterior superior maxillary teeth moderate, 

 equal, separated by a short space from an elongate stout grooveless tooth 

 which occupies a position half way between the extremities of the maxillary. 

 Posterior half of this bone edentulous, except a long grooved tooth at its 

 hinder extremity. Several anterior mandibulars long, stout, separated by a 

 space from the succeeding series of small ones. 



Char, specif. — Scales not elougate. in nineteen longitudinal rows. Posterior 

 border of each postfrontal convex. Yei-tical twice as long as its anterior 

 breadth, the lateral borders a little concave, the posterior angle obtuse. Oc- 

 cipitals elongate, acuminate posteriorly, the common emargination acute 

 angled ; common suture as long as the vertical. Temporals, three large, one 

 small, on each side, the anterior in contact with the two postoculars, and the 

 fifth and sixth superior labials. Oue grooved preocular, one parallelogrammic 

 loreal, two nasals, the posterior higher. Rostral low, rounded above. Seven 

 superior labials, third and fourth entering the orbit, seventh longer than high. 

 Nine inferior labials, the fourth and fifth very large. Total length 45 in. 6 lin., 

 tail, 13 in. 6 lin. or -38 of the whole. 



The general color is leaden olivaceous ; the gastro and urosteges are bor- 

 18U2.1 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



dered more or less distinctly with darker, the latter clouded with the same. 

 The mental region sometimes spotted with darkish. The posterior borders of 

 the superciliary and vertical plates are black; from the posterior angle of the 

 latter extends a black band which bifurcates with the border of the plates, 

 and widening, unites with a straight longitudinal postocular band. The 

 latter approaches more or less nearly a large black muchal spot. A series of 

 alternating spots extends for a few inches posterior to this ; they are then re- 

 solved into transverse bars, which are obsolete through the greater part of the 

 length. Posteriorly the scales are aJl bordered with darker. 



Obtained near Jeremie, Hayti, by Dr. Weinland. Mus. Comparative Zoology, 

 Cambridge, Mass., (No. 1519). 



The genus laltris {nKxai jacto, rapio) is allied to Dromicus, but differs widely 

 in dentition. In the latter respect it somewhat resembles Psammophis, and 

 evidently lessens the brief interval between this genus and the former, 

 which herpetologists have hitherto admitted. A peculiarity not shared 

 by any other genus, is the absence of solid teeth on the os maxillare posterior 

 to the median long one. In specific characters this serpent resembles Also- 

 phis a n g u 1 i f e r, especially the variety of the latter found in eastern Cuba. 

 It must be in some degree similar to the Philodryas dorsalis from Hayti, 

 but I have not been able to compare them, 



Alsophis V Ti d i i. 



Scales in seventeen longitudinal rows, biporous. Head lanceolate de- 

 pressed, canthus rostralis distinct, rounded. Rostral plate rounded, not 

 prominent ; vertical plate once and a half times as long as its anterior 

 breadth, lateral borders slightly concave. Occipital plates verj' elongate, 

 posterior emargination acute angled, common suture remarkably deep, longer 

 than the vertical plate. Temporal plates, two large, two or three small, the 

 anterior in contact with one or both of the postoculars, and the posterior 

 three superior labial shields. Of the latter there are eight, the third, fourth 

 and fifth entering the orbit. Nasals and loreal elongate, superior border of 

 the latter nearly parallel to the inferior. Preocular extending upon the sur- 

 face of the head, not reaching the vertical. Inferior labials eleven, sixth 

 largest ; postgenials longer than pregenials. Total length 39 in. ; tail 11 in. 



Light brown above, leaden brown beneath, everywhere thickly punctulated 

 with darker. A deeper shade, which is sometimes of a rufous tint, occupies 

 the median line of the back. Many of the scales have one white margin. 

 Many one or two black margins ; the latter are sometimes arranged in trans- 

 verse series, most distinct anteriorly. The common occipital, posterior and 

 supercilio-vertical sutures are dark shaded. A dark brown band extends 

 from the end of the muzzle and terminates at the neck; it is succeeded by a 

 few interrupted brown spots or lines or lines on the neck, beneath which a 

 reddish tint prevails. Labials yellowish, punctulated and bordered with 

 brown ; gular and mental regions indistinctly lined with the same ; gastro- 

 steges bordered with leaden brown. 



Habitat. — New Providence Id., Bahamas. Mus. Academ)- Nat. Sci., Phila. 

 Salem, Mass. 



This species is dedicated to my friend. Dr. H. C. Wood, Jr., author of me- 

 moirs on Myriapoda and extinct Cryptogamia. According to this gentleman, 

 who obtained it, it is the most common snake in its native island. It is very 

 nearly alied to Alsophis an gu lifer of Cuba, but differs constantly in 

 coloration, and in a greater attcuation of form. The occipitals are longer as 

 compared with the vertical than in a n g u 1 i f e r. 



That a variety of the same serpent is found in the same island is proven by 

 Dr. Wood's collection. It is light yellowish brown as in a ng u 1 if er, with 

 complete blackish cross bands upon the posterior portion of the body, three 

 scales apart. These are wanting upon the anterior third of the body, but are 

 represented by black margin ; margined scales at intervals upon the side. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 75 



Head without markings, except a darker shade posterior to the eye. Rela- 

 tions of vertical and occipital plates as in typical v u d i i. 



In the extensive series of serpents possessing the diacranterian dentition and 

 bifid anal scutum, which connect the stout, heavy bodied Xenodons with the 

 slender Drymobii, the authors of the Erpetologie Generale have recognized 

 two generic forms, viz. Liophis, W/i^L, and Dromicus, Btbr. These they sepa- 

 rate upon a difference in the relative development of the tail ; in the former 

 this member is said to be short, in the latter elongate. In thus defining their 

 groups they have well contrasted the prominent characteristics of the extremes 

 of the series in question. Another point of contrast is here added, viz. in the 

 short tailed extreme there are no scale pores ; in the longest tailed, these pores 

 exist in pairs. The first may be represented by the Liophis c o b e 1 1 a, the 

 last, by the Dromicus a t e r of authors. That these species belong to dif- 

 ferent genera admits of no doubt; they are placed in different "families" by 

 some authors. The Dromicus a t e r, and its immediate allies, more nearly 

 resemble in general form and habits some species of Drymobius, than they do 

 the Liophis c o b e 1 1 a ; the latter represents a genus of water snakes, the 

 former are terrestrial and arborial. 



The relative length of the tail cannot be entirely relied upon as a definite 

 index of the genera included between these extremes. There are species in 

 which this member is of an intermediate length, and some of these though 

 included by authors in their genus Dromicus, can by no means be separated 

 from the genus Liophis, as has been elsewhere shown.* From these types to 

 that of the D. a t e r, the gradation seems complete. In like manner the num- 

 ber of rows of scales on the body is a safe index of genera in some parts of 

 the system, in others it is not specific, varying with the age and circumstance of 

 the individual ; the same may be said of the division of the anal plate and pre- 

 ocular, of the carination of the scales, of the grooving of posterior maxillary 

 teeth ; also of the number of the toes in the sauria, and in an infinite number 

 of instances which will occur to every zoologist. Where, however, an organ 

 exhibits a perfect gradation between its different type forms, as we know to be 

 the case with most or all, at one or more points in the morphic scale of each, 

 the usual breaks or steps in this scale of modification of some other structure 

 or organ, most commonly indicate to us Nature's divisions as at present exist- 

 ing. 



In passing from Dromicus a t e r toward the species with shorter tails, we 

 find the two scale pores become reduced to one. Finally, in the third 

 series, typified bj' Dromicus lineatus, where the pores have disappeared, 

 the tail never, so far as is known, equals that of the Dromicus ater 

 group in length, nor is it thick, nor is the body heavy as in the poreless 

 cob ell a group. A fifth series, also with poreless scales, represented by 

 Dromicus f u g i t i v u s, exhibits the very elongate tail of the ater group. I 

 know of no species connecting it with the third, or lineatus type, though 

 the discovery of such an one would not be a matter of surprise ; in that case 

 the forms would be included under one head. The groups thus defined, with 

 their species, may be enumerated as follows : 



Ophiomorphus Ft(z. (sine diagnosi). Body short, stout. Head distinct. 

 Scales poreless. Tail short, thick, about one-fifth the total length. (Liophis 

 Fitz. Dum.) 



0. c b el la, 0. m e rr era m i i,f (type,) 0. d o 1 i at us, 0. b r e v i c e ps. 



Lygophis Fitz. (sine diagnosi). Body, slender, elongate. Scales poreless. 

 Tail one-fourth the total length, sometimes a little longer, rarely shorter, 

 always slender. 



* Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1860. p. 251. 



+ Xenodon iyphlus, Schl. is almost identical in form with these species, but our speci- 

 mens being wiihoul epidermis, the absence or presence of pores cannot be determined. 



1862.] 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



L. lineatus (tj-pe^ L. d i 1 e p i s n. sp., L. e 1 e g a n s, L. f 1 aV i fr e n a- 

 t u s n. sp. , L. r u t i 1 u s n. sp., L. c o n i r o s t r i s (approaches near to Ophi- 

 omorphus). 



Dromicus Bihr. Body moderate or short. Head little distinct. Scales 

 poreless. Tail one-third, or a greater proportion of the total length. [Calo- 

 phis Fitz). 



D. fugitivus (type). D. p a r vi fr p n s n. sp., D. temporali s,* D. 

 callilaemus, D. exiguus n. sp. 



Liophis Wagl. Body elongate, slender. Head distinct. Scales uniporous. 

 Tail one-fourth the total length, or longer. {^Orophis et Limadophis Fitz). 



L. r e g i n a e (type) ?L. taeniurus, L. almadensis, L. sub fas- 

 cia t us n. sp., L. melanonotus, L. temminckii, L. perfuscus 

 n. sp., L. e p i n e p h e 1 u s n. sp., L. p u t n a m i i, n. sp. 



Alsophis Fitz. (sine diagnosi). Body moderate. Head distinct, acute. 

 Scales biporous. Tail one-third total length, or longer. 



A. antillensis (type). A. sancticrusis n. sp., A. melanich- 

 n u s n. sp., A. a n gu 1 i f e r, A. v u d ii, n. sp., A. 1 e u c o mela s.-j- A. 

 ater, A. funereus n. sp. 



Dromici triscalis, inornatus, rufiventrisandplei of the Erp. 

 Gen. and D. rufodorsatus and a f fi ni s of Giinther ; Liophis bicinctus 

 Dum., L. taeniurus and L. 1 a t e r is tri g a,J Berth. I have not been 

 able to compare. 



So far as is linown, Alsophis and Dromicus are West Indian, Lygophis and 

 Ophiomorphus South American; Liophis inhabits both regions. 



Alsophis sancticrucis. 



Body thick. Scales broad in seventeen longitudinal rows. In other respects 

 the squamation is similar to that of H. a n t i 1 1 e n s i s, as pointed out by Dr. 

 Giinther. II including the peculiar loreal plate, which preseuts an angle up- 

 wards. The color superiorly is deep yellowish brown, or almost black, some- 

 times the scales of the fourth row with yellowish centres, producing a banded 

 appearance, others with one yellow margin. The whole, or anterior part only 

 of the superior surface of the head is varied, or shaded with dark yellow. A 

 narrow band of the same passed along the canthus rostralis beyond the eye to 

 the temporal region. Superior labials and chin bright golden yellow, some- 

 times varied with brown. Gastrosteges deep yellow, margined, finally shaded 

 and obscured with brown and blackish, the yellow remaining upon their ex- 

 tremities, forming a band of spots. A narrow yellow line extends for some 

 distance upon the neck, on the line of separation of the second and third rows 

 rows of scales. Total length 50 inches, tail 17 inches. 



Habitat. — St. Croix Id., W. Indies. Mus. Philadelphia, "Washington. 



E.xamination of a number of specimens of A. antillensis and compari- 

 son of them with two of this animal, and with Dr. Giinther's description of 

 three that came under his notice, has resulted in a conviction of their specific 

 difference. This and the succeeding species would be called by some zoolo- 

 gists " geographical" or " local varieties." 



Alsophis melanichnus. 



Squamation as in H. sancticrucis; seventeen rows of rather broad 

 scales, two more than antillensis. Yellowish olivaceous above, without 

 lines or punctulation, every scale tipped, and bordered with brown. Superior 

 labials lighter, unspotted. A narrow black band from the rostral plate to the 



* Pr. Nat. Sci., Phila.. 1860, p, 370. 



t This species is not identical wiih H. ater, as stated by Guntlier. 

 t Goettingen jVachrichten, 1859, p. 210. 



II Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 1859, p. 210: Here also are noticed the double scale pores of 

 this species. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



temporal region, and three, one median and two lateral divergent, from the 

 posterior border of the occipital shields. Urosteges and posterior three- 

 fourths of the gastrosteges bordered with brown, ground color olivaceous 

 yellowish, unspotted. Total length 36 in., tail 10 in. 3 lin. 



Habitat. — Hayti, near Jeremie. Mus. Compar. Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. 



(No. 1522). Dr. Weinland Coll. 



Alsophis f u n e r e u s. 



Head distinct, not lanceolate. Rostral plate scarcely visible from above. 

 Superciliaries and vertical plates not elongate ; the lateral borders of the latter 

 straight, convergent, as long as the anterior. Occipitals rather broad, the com- 

 mon suture as long as the vertical; three large, two small temporals. JSupero- 

 anterior border of loreal contiauous. curved. Preocular not reaching vertical: 

 two postoculars. Seven superior labials, third and fourth entering the orbit. 

 Seventeen rows of obtuse scales. Total length of specioaen 16 in. ; tail 5 in. 

 6 lines. 



General color black ; anteriorly the inferior surface is plumbeous, as are also 

 the superior labials. 



Habitat. — Jamaica. Mus. Washington, (Xo. 5779.) Prof. C. B. Adams' 

 Coll. 



The breadth of the vertical plate distinguishes this species at once from 

 others of the genus. 

 Liophis perfu sous. 



Scales obtuse, rather broad, in nineteen longitudinal series. Head mode- 

 rately distinct, not very elongate, the front slightly curved in profile : canthus 

 rostralis very obtuse. Rostral shield much broader than high, not appearing 

 on the superior surface of the muzzle. Prefrontals very small, their common 

 suture half the length of that of the postfrontals. Vertical plate elongate, 

 less so than in Haliophis a n t i 1 1 e n s i s, more so than in H. f u n e r e u s, its 

 anterior broader more than half the total length, the lateral a little concave, not 

 convergent. Occipitals moderate, acuminate, bifurcate. Two postoculars, 

 both in contact with an elongate temporal, which is not in contact with the 

 last (eighth) superior labial. This labial is well developed ; the seventh is high, 

 five-sided, its commisural border shorter than its anterior, superior, and some- 

 times its lower posterior border ; upper posterior very short. One preocular, 

 not reaching the vertical, tbe superior extremity half separated by a suture 

 from the orbit, Geneials of about equal length. Total length 17 in. ; the tail 

 3 in. 9 lin. 



General color deep mud brown, paler on the sides and beneath; sometimes 

 certain scales are irregularly darker or lighter. 



Habitat. — Barbadoes. Obtained by Prof Theodore Gil), who has presented 

 specimens to Mus. Phila. Acad, and Smithsonian, Wash.. (No. 6044.) 



Liophis subfasciatus. 



Form stout, tail short, thick, head moderately distinct. Scales in nineteen 

 longitudinal rows. Rostral plate small, swollen, a little recurved superiorly. Can- 

 thus rostralis none. Prefrontals small, their common suture more than half 

 that of the postfrontals. Vertical shorter than in L, r e g i n a e. lateral borders. 

 slightly curved and convergent, posterior hugle right. Occipitals short, broad 

 and obtuse posteriorly, bounded by two large and one or two small temporals, 

 the anterior in contact with two labials and two postoculars. Of the latter the 

 superior is twice the size of the inferior. One preocular not reaching vertical : 

 one loreal nearly rectangular. Superior labials eight, fourth and fifth entering 

 orbit. Last two higher than long. The posterior superior maxillary tooth is 

 of unusual length and curvature. Total length 18 in. 3 lin. ; tail 3 in. 



Color above brown, sometimes nearly unicolor, sometimes with transvepse 

 bands of deep brown, one and two scales apart. These bands are formed by 

 dark edges and tips of tbe scales, and so have a zigzag form : sometimes they 

 1862.] 




i PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



are broken into spots. Their extremities are separated into lateral spotS; 

 which become smaller posteriorly, and are finally confluent into a line, which 

 is on the third or fourth rows of scales ; it is obsolete on the tail. Superior 

 labials and under surface yellowish; a few dark shades upon the margins 

 and extremities of the gastrosteges. 



Habitat. — Paraguay. Mus. Smithsonian, (No. 5809.) Capt. Page's Expedi- 

 tion. 



This species is a near relation ofL. almadensi s.* It has one more 

 row of scales on each side, a shorter, thicker tail, a less distinct head, a more 

 acute muzzle and different coloration. It is annectant to Ophiomorphus, where 

 it most resembles 0. c o b e 1 1 a. 



Liophis epinephalus- 



General form elongate, the head not very distinct, with broad muzzle, the 

 tail slender, more elongate than in the preceding species, not so much so as in 

 L. r e g i n a e. Rostral plate flat, broad, rounded, visible from above ; com- 

 mon suture of prefrontals two-thirds that of the postfrontals ; the latter are 

 very broad. Vertical and superciliaries elongate, the former one and a half 

 times as long as its anterior suture ; lateral sutures straight, convergent, pos- 

 terior sutures short. Occipitals rather short, rounded posteriorly, bounded by 

 two large and two small temporals. The anterior of these is elongate, in con- 

 tact with two labials and two postoculars. Loreal higher than long, encroach- 

 ing on the preocular. Superior labials eight; third, fourth and fifth entering 

 the orbit. Inferior labials ten. Total length 20 in. 9 1.: tail 4 in. 9 1. 



General color above brown ; the sides tinged with yellow ; a few scales, with 

 a light margin. Large alternating black spots, broad on the median line, nar- 

 rowed upon the sides, almost obscure tiie ground color. They are more distinct 

 anteriorly; posteriorly the ground is visible in short alternating half bands. 

 Tail blackish above, a black band on each side, which is the continuation of a 

 confluent series of spots which are cut off' from the extremities of the dorsal 

 spots. Top of head blackish ; a black dot on each side of the occipital suture. 

 Superior labials light yellowish, immaculate. 



Habitat. — Truando, New Granada. Mus. Washington, (No. 4305.) Lieut. 

 Michler's Expedition. 



This species is a near ally ofL. reginae and almadensis. In squa- 

 mation it resembles them closely, but differs very widely from both in colora- 

 tion. The absence of temple bands and of ventral spots, separate it from the 

 former, while the ground color and spots of the upper surface are not imi- 

 tated by the latter. 



Liophis p u t n a m i i. 



General form elongate. Head very distinct, rather short, with narrow pro- 

 minent muzzle, flat above. Rostral plate not visible from above, vertical and 

 superciliaries elongate, the former very nearly twice as long as the anterior 

 border ; lateral borders a little concave. Occipitals not elongate, bifurcate, 

 obtuse. Temporals two large, one or two small, the anterior in contact with 

 two labials and two postoculars. One preocular, considerably separated from 

 vertical. Loreal higher than long, its superior border longitudinal. Eight 

 superior labials, fourth and fifth entering orbit ; sixth with a postocular suture 

 longer than a temporal. Temporal suture of seventh very long. Inferior la- 

 bials ten. Scales in seventeen longitudinal rows. Total length 25 in. 9 lin. ; 

 tail 7 in. 



Yellowish brown above, with a deep brown median dorsal band occupying 

 three rows of scales. Tue median row of scales for a short distance anteriorly 

 is lighter. Oa the tail the band is narrow, and is wanting on the terminal 



* .S. wagleri, Jan. Arch. f. Naturgesch. 1859- Natrix almada et semilineata Wagl . 

 Spis Serp. Braz- L. rtgina, var. Pr. A. N, S., 1860, 253. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



third. A similar lateral band occupies the third and fourth rows, and is 

 continued to near the end of the tail; anteriorly it is continuous with a nar- 

 row band on the superior margins of the lateral plates. Muzzle and labials 

 yellowish ; beneath yellowish white, unspotted. 



Ilobitat. — Martinique. Mus. Acad. Philada. ; Mus. Gard. Plants in ex. 



This is the specimen referred to in the "Catalogue of Colubridaj," Pr. A. 

 N. Sc, 1860, p. 560, as a variety of Droraicus f u gi t i v u s. It differs from the 

 the Cuban form of that species in having uniporous scales, a shorter tail, a 

 broader and more distinct head, a much narrower anterior temporal, and dif- 

 ferent system of coloration. I have named it in honor of my friend Fredk. W. 

 Putnam, Esq., of Cambridge, Mass., in recognition of his merit as a zoologist, 

 and of obligations for opportunities of examining valuable collections. 



Dromicus parvifrons. 



Some scales upon the nape with a pore. Scales of the back obtuse, not elon- 

 gate, ia seventeen or nineteen longitudinal rows. Head small and but little 

 distinct from the body. Eyes moderate. Rostral plate rounded above. Suture 

 of prefrontals with pre-nasal twice or thrice as long as with postnasal. Vertical 

 and superciliaries elongate, the former twice as long as its anterior breadth, 

 longer than the common occipital suture ; its lateral borders a little concave, 

 its posterior angle less than right. Occipitals rather small ; temporals three 

 large, two small, the anterior large, in contact with two labials and two post- 

 oculars. Loreal nearly quadrangular, preocular a little concave, not reaching 

 vertical. Superior labials eight: third, fourth and fifth entering the orbit : 

 the first very narrowly. Preanal plate divided. Total length 26 in. 6 lin. ; tail 

 16 inches. 



General coloration dark olivaceous. A brown band extends from the muzzle 

 through the eye, and for the greater part of the total length upon the fourth 

 row of scales. It is bounded above by a light band, which occupies half of 

 the fifth row; it becomes lighter anteriorly and extends to the superciliary 

 plates. The median dorsal band thus remaining is sometimes divided anteriorlv 

 by a daiker vertebral line, upon one row of scales. 



Habitat. — Hayti, near Jeremie. Mus. Corapar. Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. 

 From Dr. Weinland. 



Dromicus e x i g u it s . 



Size small ; body stout ; head little distinct, flat above, muzzle prominent. 

 Rostral plate broad, presenting no superior surface. Prefrontals well de- 

 veloped. Vertical elongate, lateral borders straight, the posterior long, form- 

 ing an acute angle. Occipitals well developed, the median or common suture 

 shorter than vertical plate, obtuse posteriorly, bounded by one large and five 

 small temporals on each side. Postoculars two ; preocular one, rather broad ; 

 loreal small. Postnasal longer than prenasal. Eight superior labials, third, 

 fourth and fifth entering orbit. Nine inferior labials, fourth and fifth largest. 

 Scales in nineteen longitudinal rows. Total length of largest of five speci- 

 mens 17 in. 1 lin. ; tail 5 in. 4 lin. 



Above light brown, sometimes yellowish, densely punctulated with darker. 

 The median dorsal region is of a deeper shade ; distant dark brown dots some- 

 times form two parallel series, one on each side of it. A dark brown band 

 along the fourth row of scales nearly to the end of the tail ; it is sharply 

 defined only superiorly ; it is continuous with a head-band which passes 

 through the eye. Beneath yellowish, punctulated with brown, especially 

 toward the extremities of the gastrosteges. 



Huh. — St. Johns and St. Thomas, W. I. Mus. Washington, (RUse Coll.) 

 Phila. Academy. 



Tliis species may be readily mistaken for the young of Alsophia a n t i 1- 

 1 e n s i s, and probably has been. In very small specimens of the latter, the 

 double scale-por«s may be observed ; the animal is also more elongate, the 

 1862.] 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



gastrosteges reaching 180 or 190 ; in the e x i g u u s , 137 is the most that I have 

 counted. Tlie head of the latter is relatively smaller and less distinct, in 

 accordance with the character of Dromicus. D, c a 1 1 i 1 se m u s is similar in 

 some respects, but exhibits a broader vertical shield, a more elongate tail, and 

 only seven superior labial plates. 



Lygophis r u 1 11 u s • 



Form approaching Ophiomorphus, but the tail is slender, though not long. 

 Scales in nineteen longitudinal rows, rather elongate medially. Head mode- 

 rately distinct, rather short. Rostral plate not low, the nasal borders a little 

 concave. Prefontals as long as broad. Vertical and superciliaries elongate ; 

 the former nearly twice as long as broad, the borders a little concave, scarcely 

 convergent. Occipitals very short. Temporals small, three larger, three 

 smaller. One pre- two postoculars, both in contact with the temporal. Eight 

 superior labials, fourth and fifth entering orbit, all higher than long excepting 

 sometimes the first and last. Inferior labials ten, fifth and sixth largest. 

 Pregeneials longer than postgeneials. Total length 18 in. 10 lin. ; tail 3 in. 

 9 1in. 



Above dark brown ; two yellow lines extend from the anterior extremity of 

 the superciliary shields to the end of the tail, occupying on the body the centre 

 of the scales of the seventh row, being separated by five scales. The median 

 line is occupied by a similar red stripe which is most distinct behind the 

 occipital plates and on the posterior regions. The space between the yellow 

 lines contains two series of black spots which usually alternate, sometimes 

 coalesce. The sides are marked with vertical black spots or bars which extend 

 from the second row to the yellow line, and which are one or two scales apart. 

 Small yellow dots are scattered over these and other parts of the body. 

 Head above black. A yellow line near the inner border of each occipital, a 

 bifurcate one on the vertical, a large one on each pre- and postfrontal, also on 

 each nasal, the loreal, the pre- and postoculars. Labials and chin yellow ; 

 belly deep rose-red, every second or third gastrostege with its posterior angle 

 black. 



Hab. — Paraguay, along the Parana River and its branches, in particular the 

 Tigre. Mus. Smithsonian, Washington, (No. 5397.) Acad. Philada. 



In this beautiful water-snake I find a depression near the tip of some of the 

 scales, but nowhere have I discovered a true pore. 



Lygophis flavifrenatus. 



Scales rather elongate, in seventeen longitudinal series. Head slightly dis- 

 tinct, rather elongate. Rostral plate a little produced posteriorly above ; 

 nasal sutures slightly concave. Prefrontals as long as broad. Saperciliaries 

 narrow ; vertical elongate, the lateral borders a little concave, posterior 

 sutures short. Occipitals short, much rounded posteriorly, bounded by six 

 temporals which decrease in size from the anterior. The latter is short, in 

 contact with both postoculars and two labials. Eight superior labials, none 

 very high, fourth and fifth (which are longer than high) entering the orbit. 

 Inferior labials ten. Total length 25 in. 10 lin. ; tail 6 in. 10 lin. 



Above brown, inferior two rows of scales tinged with olivaceous. A narrow 

 yellow line extends from the summit of the rostral plate across the superciliary 

 and occipital plates on each side to the end of the tail. It is on the seventh row 

 of scales on the body. Three rows separate these lines ; the scales of the external 

 of the three have their terminal halves black. Tips of scales of the first row 

 black anteriorly ; tips, and finally the whole of those of the third black, form- 

 ing a band on the posterior fourth of the body and tail. Anterior angle of 

 every gastrosti-ge black ; remainder greenish white. Some black spots on the 

 sides of the neck ; one posterior to the eye prominent. 



^a6.— Rio Vermejo region. Mus. Phila. Acad. ; Smithsonian, (Nos. 5397, 

 5398,) Capt. Page's Expedition. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



This serpent at first sight resembles the preceding species, but is more truly- 

 allied to that that follows. 



Lygophis d i 1 e p i s . 



Form slender. Head elongate, distinct, rather obtuse. Scales not abbrevi- 

 ated, in nineteen longitudinal series. Rostral plate elevated, a little recurved 

 posteriorly. Prefrontals well developed, their common suture longer than 

 that of the postfrontais. The latter are rather small. Vertical twice the 

 length of its anterior suture, lateral borders a little concave. Occipitals mode- 

 rate, rounded posteriorly ; one large, four medium or small temporals, the 

 anterior narrow, in contact with both postoculars and two labials. Prenasal 

 larger than postnasal, loreal nearly rectangular. Inferior preoculars higher 

 than long, lower than loreal ; superior nearly reaching vertical. Eight supe- 

 rior labials, posterior labial suture of the penultimate as long as the anterior. 

 Inferior labials ten. Total length 25 in. 6 lin. ; of tail 4 in. 10 lin. 



A deep brown band extends from the muzzle, occupying nearly the whole 

 upper surface of the head — throughout the body, where it is black bordered, 

 and occupies one and two halves rows of scales — to the end of the tail. A 

 darker band extends from the eye, throughout the total length, occupying the 

 fifth row and the halves of the adjacent rows above and below. Belly, sides 

 and labials yellowish ; space between the bands pale brown. 



Hab. — Paraguay. Mus. Smithsonian, Washington, (No. 5861,) Capt. Page's 

 Expedition. 



This species bears much resemblance to the L. lineatus; it may be dis- 

 tinguished by the broader head, stouter body and shorter tail ; by the greater 

 width of the lateral and head bands ; by the two preoculars, etc. 



Colorhogia redimita. 



Char. Gen. — Dentition diacranterian. Head moderately distinct, obtuse- 

 Pupil round. Head shields normal except in the coalescence of the two post- 

 frontais. One preocular, one loreal, one nasal. Rostral plate small, obtuse. 

 Dorsal scales smooth, poreless. Anal plate divided. Tail elongate. 



Char. Specif. — Size small, bead little distinct, short, obtuse. Scales short 

 obtuse, in seventeen longitudinal rows. Rostral plate low, rounded above. 

 Prefontals small, transverse. Postfrontal large. Anterior border of vertical 

 plate equal to the lateral, which are straight, convergent ; posterior angle 

 acute. Occipitals elongate, obtuse posteriorly, bounded by three large and 

 two small temporals, the anterior large, in contact with the fifth and sixth 

 superior labials and the inferior postocular. Of the latter plates there are 

 two. One preocular curtailed above by the superciliary, which forms part of 

 the anterior border of the orbit. Loreal rectangular, longer than high. Nasal 

 nearly rectangular, the nostril near the superior snture. Sujierior labials 

 seven, third and fourth entering tJie orbit. Inferior labials nine ; pregeneials 

 longer than postgeneials. Total length 7 in. 9 lin. ; tail 2 in. 9 lin. 



General color brownish grey, lighter beneath. The median portions of the 

 dorsal scales are punctulated with brown ; a narrow line of the same color 

 occupies the middle of the fourth row of scales to the end of the tail. The 

 vertebral series is occupied by a similar narrow line for the same extent. A 

 dark brown band passes through the eye and is continuous with the lateral 

 line. The entire crown is occupied by a large subsagittiform liver-brown spot, 

 whose outline is parallel with the lateral brown bands. Between these 

 is enclosed a light frontal and temporal band (redimiculum.) Posteriorly it is 

 joined by the median dorsal band. Two light occipital spots as in Tropido- 

 notus sp. Labial plates and chin punctulated with deep brown. Belly im- 

 maculate. 



Hab. — Eastern Cuba. Mus. Smithsonian. (No. 5747,) from Mr. Charles 

 Wright. 



This little serpent is allied to Dromicus and Contia, but is readily disiin- 

 1862.] 6 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



guished by the single postfrontal. Five other genera have been enumerated* 

 which possess this structure, but none of tliem have any close affinity with the 

 present. Specifically it resembles the Dromicus callilsemus from Jamaica : 

 H may also be loosely compared to the Cuban Arrhyton tseniatum. 

 Hah. — Cuba. Mus. Smithsonian, Prof. Poly. Coll. 



Arrhyton f ii 1 v u m . 



Arrhyton tceniatum Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliilad..l860, p. 421. 



This species differs from the A. t se u i a t u m in its broader head and more 

 acute muzzle. The preocular plate is larger, the postfrontal in contact with 

 the second labial only ; the vertical is shorter, with more convergent outer 

 borders. Temporals six or seven on each side, the anterior as deep as long. 

 The head and body above the third row of scales is deep brown ; the lateral 

 band occupies the fourth and fifth and half the third and sixth rows of scales : 

 the median the vertebral series alone. In tseniatum these bands are of 

 equal width, occupying one and two half rows. 



Hab. — Cuba. Mus. Smithsonian. 



Arrhyton bivittatum. 



Scales in seventeen longitudinal rows. Dentition, as in other species of the 

 genus, strongly diacranterian. Head wider than body, arched in profile, with 

 acute prominent muzzle. Rostral plate visible from above : nasal plates united ? 

 Loreal present, longer than high, rectangular. Preocular plate a little higher. 

 Superior labials seven, third and fourth entering the orbit. Postoculars two : 

 temporals, three large, two small, anterior broad : the external borders of the 

 vertical parallel. Prefrontals not small. Inferior labials seven ; anterior gene- 

 ials longer. Total length 11 in. ; tail 3 in. 2 lin. 



General color brown ; a blackish band on each side which occupies the adja- 

 cent halves of the scales of the third and fourth rows. 



Hah. — Cuba. Mus. Smithsonian, (No. 5784.) 



Monograph of the species of TROGOSITA, inhabiting the United States. 

 BY OEORGE n. HORN, M. D. 



The publication of the present paper was sugj^ested by the neglected condi- 

 tion of the geQU3. Many American species have been published from time to 

 time by various authors, amounting to about twelve or thirteen, of which Mel- 

 sheimer (Proc. Acad, ii.) and Pal. de Beauvois, (Ins. d'Afrique et d'Amerique) 

 have published one half, the other half being scattered among various authors. 

 It is to be feared that Beauvois has, from describing insects from two widely sepa- 

 rated parts of the globe, caused confusion by the mingling of specimens. 

 Some of his other American (?) insects remain unknown even now. The pos- 

 session of several of Melsheiiuer's types enables us to determine their true 

 value with certainty. 



The s[)ecies here described have been derived in great part from the collec- 

 tion of Dr. Le Conte, with whom all the typical specimens will be found, the 

 collections from other sources serving rather to increase the number of speci- 

 mens than species. 



Our species may be arranged in groups as follows : 

 Sec. A. Antennae with the eighth joint equal to the ninth. Species 1 — 2. 

 Sec. B. Antennte with the eight joint much smaller than the ninth : 



1. Sides of thorax sinuate or rounded, strongly emargiuate before 

 the posterior angles, which are acute. Species 3 — 6. 



2. Thorax subquadrate, sides moderately rounded, posterior angle.- 



acute. 



a. Convex Species 7 — 10. 

 h. Depressed Species 11 — 13. 



• Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phil. 1861, pp. 302, 524. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



3. Tliorax broad, subtransverse sides much rounded, posterior angles 

 small, obtuse. Species 14 — 20. 



4. Thorax broad, sides strongly rounded posterior angles scarcely 

 evident. Species 21. 



A. 



1. T. m au r i t an-i c a, nigro picea, obscura, modice depressa, capiie 

 thoraceque parce grosse punctatis, hoc linea dorsali lajvi, lateribus, sinuatis, 

 antice latiore, poBticc angustato, margine vix reflexo, basi rotundato, angulis 

 posticis parvis acutis, elytris oblongis, basi late emarginatis, siriis punctatis 

 interstitiis paulo convexis, rugulosis, biseriatim subtiliter punctulatis, ab- 

 domine prosternoque parce punctatis, gula postice subtiliter punctulata, antice 

 grosse punctata, antennis pedibusque rufis. Long. -38. 



T. mauritanica, Linn. (Tenebrio,) Mann. Bull. Mosc. 1843, 302. 



T. caraboides, Fab. 1, 151. 



This species has been carried all over the world in articles of commerce ; 

 specimens have been received from Europe, Cuba, Sierra Leone, Texas and 

 Pennsylvania. With the succeeding species, the mauritanica forms a 

 natural section, characterized by having the joints of the antenna gradually in- 

 creasing in breadth, while, in the next group, the last three joints are suddenly 

 larger, forming a loose club. These two forms appear to be characteristic, the 

 former of the species of the eastern hemisphere, the latter of those of North and 

 South America. 



2. T. n i t i d a, nigro-picea nitida, modice depressa, subtus subtiliter punctu- 

 lata capite thoraceque parce subtiliter punctulatis, hoc antice latiore, postice an- 

 gustato, lateribus sinuatis, margine reflexo, angulis posticis, acutis reflexis, basi 

 rotundato, elytris oblongis, basi vix emarginatis humeris rectis, striis punctatis 

 interstitiis planis parce rugulosis biseriatim subtiliter punctulatis, abdomine 

 prosternoque parce subtiliter punctulatis, gula antice parce grosse punctata, 

 postice Iteve, antennis pedibusque piceo-rufis. Long, "40. 



This species like the mauritanica has been imported. Numerous speci- 

 mens were obtained from a vessel from Sierra Leone, in the spring of 1861, 

 since then others have been found in the neighborhood of Philadelphia. In its 

 general form it resembles closely the mauritanica, from which it may 

 be readily distinguished by its more glossy appearance, and less deeply and 

 closely punctured head and thorax. The posterior angles of the thorax are 

 somewhat larger, more acute, and slightly reflexed. The under surface of the 

 body is also more finely and less densely punctured. 



B— 1. 



3. T. californica, nigro-picea, subnitida, depressa, capite thoraceque 

 parce grosse punctatis, hoc antice latiore, postice angustato lateribus sinuatis 

 ante angulos emarginatis, his acutis reflexis, margine vix reflexo, basi rotun- 

 dato, medio truucato, elytris oblongis, basi late emarginatis versus humeros 

 impressis, his rectis, striis valde punctatis interstitiis planis, parce rugulosis, bi- 

 seriatim subtiliter punctulatis, antennis pedibusque rufis, abdomine prosterno- 

 que parce subtiliter punctulatis, gula antice vix punctulata, postice subplicata. 

 Long. -40. 



California, one specimen ; Dr. LeConte. This is the largest California species 

 yet known. The thorax is much broader anteriorly than long, the breadth 

 posteriorly is about equal to its length. The sides are sinuate, anterior to the 

 angles deeply eniarginate. This character is possessed in a greater or less de- 

 gree by all of the California species. In all of this group the posterior angles 

 are well developed, acute and slightly reflexed. 



4. T. crassicornis, rufa subnitida, depressa, subtus parce punctata, ca- 

 pite thoraceque parce grosse punctatis hoc medio laeviore, antice latiore postice 

 angustato, lateribus hand rotundatis, ante angulos emarginatis, his acutis reflexis 

 1862.] 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



margine reflexo, basi modice rotundato medio truncato elytris oblongis basi 

 late emarginatis, humeris rectis, striis punctatis, interstitiis planis vix rugulosis, 

 biseriatim subtiliter punctulatig, gula raodice rugosa. Long. -23. 



California, one specimen ; Dr. Le Conte. Distinct from the preceding by its 

 smaller size, more depressed form, and less deeply punctured head and thorax. 

 Its color is light rufous, probably immature. The antennae in this species are j 

 much shorter, and the joints much more globose, than in any other of this 

 group. The eighth joint is not as much smaller as in all the other American 

 Trogosita;, exhibiting thus a relationship with Section A. 



5. T. p leu rails, nigro-picea depressa, capite thoraceque parce grosse 

 punctatis, hoc lateribus densiore punctatis et colore ferrugineis, antice la- 

 tiore postice angustato, lateribus modice rotundatis ante angulos modice 

 emarginatis, margine reflexo, basi rotundato, elytris oblongis, basi rectig, 

 striis punctatis, interstitiis planis rugulosis, biseriatim subtiliter punctulatis 

 punctatis, abdomine parce grosse punctato, gula prosternoque parce subtiliter 

 punctulatis, antennis pedibusque nigro ferrugineis. Long. -23 — '30. 



California, two specimens ; Dr. Le Conte. This species is the most depressed 

 of this group, resembling the c o 1 1 a r i s, Sturm. The sides of the thor.ix and 

 anterior portion of the head are ferrugineous. The elytra are much wider in 

 proportion to their length than in any others of this group. 



6. T. lirabalis, brunnea, modice convexa, capite thoraceque dense punc- 

 tatis, hoc lateribus rotundatis, antice latiore, postice angustato, ante angulos vix 

 emarginatis, his acutis, margine reflexo, basi rotundato, elytris oblongis basi 

 late emarginatis humerie rectis, striis punctatis, interstitiis, planis, nitidis, 

 biseriatim subtiliter punctulatis, gula transverse plicata antennis pedibusque 

 pallidioribus Long. -22. 



T.limbalis, Mels. Proc. Acad. ii. 109. 



Pennsylvania, two specimens ; Dr. Le Conte. Resembles crassicornis, 

 from which it differs by its more convex form, its smooth elytral interspaces, 

 and the plications of the gular region, which are in three transverse series. 

 The antennae are of normal form, the eighth joint being much smaller than the 

 ninth. 



7. T. corti calls, nigra, subnitida, modice convexa, capite thoraceque 

 grosse punctatis, hoc lateribus modice rotundatis, antice latiore, postice vix 

 angustato, margine reflexo, angulis posticis acutis, basi rotundato, elytris ob- 

 longis, basi vix emarginatis, humeris rectis, striis punctatis, interstitiis modice 

 convexis, subtiliter rugulosi?, biseriatim subtiliter punctulatis. abdomine pros- 

 ternoque grosse punctatis, gula band plicata, pedibus nigris, antennis nigro- 

 ferrugineis. Long. -SS* 



T. corticalis, Mels. Proc. Acad. ii. p. 109. 



Common in Pennsylvania. This is, probably, the best known of all our spe- 

 cies. It may be found under the bark of stumps, at almost any season. The 

 thorax is broader than long, coarsely punctured, and in Melsheimer's typical 

 specimen with the sides near the margin with shallow impressions. The elytra 

 are twice as long as broad, and slightly dilated behind the middle. 



8. T. i n t e r m e d ia, nigro-picea, subnitida, convexa, capite thoraceque 

 parce grosse punctatis, hoc lateribus rotundatis, antice latiore postice angus- 

 tato, margine reflexo, angulis posticis acutis vix reflexis, elytris oblongis, basi 

 late emarginatis, versus humeros impressis his rectis, striis punctatis, intersti- 

 tiis planis parce rugulosis, biseriatim subtiliter punctulatis, abdomine confertim 

 punctulatis, prosterno parce punctato, gula subplicata. Long. •32. 



Kansas two, San Jose one specimen. The species resembles the corticalis 

 differing in the more elongate thorax which is more narrowed posteriorly, the 

 posterior angles are better developed and slightly reflexed, its body is less de- 

 pressed, and the sides of the elytra more nearly parallel. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



9. T. d u b i a, Mels, nigro-picea, coavexa, capite thoracqiie grosse punc- 

 tatis, hoc aiitice latiore, postice parum angustato, lateribus vix rotundatis, an- 

 gulis posticis acutis, raargiae refiexo, basi rotundato, eljtris oblongis, humeris 

 rectis, basi rectis, versus humeros impressis, striis punctatis, iaterslitiis planis, 

 parce rugulosis, biseriatim subtiliter punctulatis, abdoraine prosternoque sub- 

 Tiliter punctulatis, gulatriseriatim transverse-plicata, antenais pedibusque nigro- 

 ferrugineis. Long. -25. 



T. dubia, Mels. Proc. Acad. ii. 110. 



Pennsjlvania, common. Resembles both the c orti calls and interme- 

 dia, but is smaller than either. Its thorax is more quadrate, the sides neither so 

 much rounded as in the former, nor so convergent as in the latter species. The 

 gular region is rendered less smooth than in the other two by tbe presence of 

 three transverse ridges or folds. 



10. T. s e m i c y 11 n d r i c a, rufa, valde convexa, subtus parce grosse punc- 

 tata, capite thoraceque parce punctatis, hoc quadrato, versus iatera vix punctata, 

 postice baud angustato, lateribus vix rotundatis, angulis posticis rectis, margine 

 reflexo, basi rotundato, elytris oblongis humeris reciis, basi late emarginacis, 

 striis grosse punctatis, interstitiis planis, vix rugulosis, biseriatim subtiliter 

 punctulatis, gula transverse-plicata, femoribus autennisque pallidioribus. 

 Long. -23, 



Two specimens, Georgia : Dr. Le Conte. This can hardly be confounded 

 with any other American Trogosita. Its form is rather elongate, very couvex and 

 with parallel sides ; the thorax is nearly quadrate, slightly narrower posteriorly, 

 the posterior angles riglit, and with coarse punctures not closely arranged. 

 The interstrial spaces are flat, scarcely roughened and having the two rows of 

 smaller punctures ver}' poorly marked, in some interspaces but one row appear- 

 ing. Its color is light rufous, with a slight orassy refulgence . It may be im- 

 mature. 



B— 2b. 



11. T. nana, rufo-picea, depressa, capite thoraceque parce grosse punc- 

 titis, hoc antice laiiore, postice parum angustato, lateribus modice rotun- 

 datis, margine reflexo, angulis posdcis acutis parvis, basi rotundato elytris ob- 

 longis, striis punctatis, interstitiis modice convexis, parce rugulosis, biseriatim 

 subtiliter punctulatis, prosterno vix punctulato, gula antice abdomineque parce 

 grosse punctato, gula postice transverse plicata. Long. -24. 



T. nana, Mels. Proc. Acad. ii. p. 110. 



? T. mutica, Palisot de Beauv. Ins. p. 126, pi. 32, fig. 6. 



Pennsylvania, common. This species can hardly be confouaded with any 

 other. The thorax is slightly broader than long, its sides moderately rounded, 

 and somewhat convergent posteriorly. The eljlra are about twice as long as 

 wide, with the sides moderately rounded, and broader behind the middle. Its 

 color approaches castaneous. The color of the species of the genus Trogosita 

 is generally black or dark brown, hence from the color of this and the prece- 

 ding species, their immaturity might be inferred, but in this instance the color 

 appears constant, being the same in each individual of a full series, collected 

 during several seasons. 



12. T. collaris, valde depressa, subtus vix punctulata, capite thorace- 

 que parce subtiliter punctulatis, rubris, hoc antice latiore, postice vix angus- 

 tato lateribus rotundatis, margiae reflexo, angulis posticis acutis, basi rotun- 

 dato, elytris oblongis, nigris, humeris rectis, basi emarginatis, striis vix punctu- 

 latis, interstitiis planis, laevis, vix biseriatim punctulatis. Lang. "23 — -28. 



T. collaris, Sturm., Ins. Deutsch ii. p. 246.pl. 48. 



T. nigripennis, Dej. Catal. 



Georgia, two specimens ; Dr. Le Conte. The color alone would serve to dis- 

 tinguish this from any other species. The head and thorax are of an orange 

 red, and the el jtra black. In shape this resembles the preceding species. Its 



1862.] 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



thorax and head are much more finely punctured, tbe elytra smooth, scarcely 

 striate and the intermediate rows of smaller punctures scarcely evident. Ex- 

 cepting the b tus a, this is tbe most depressed of our Trogositae. 



13. T. sinuata, nigro-picea nitida, depressa, capite thoraceque sat 

 parce punctatis, hoc latitudine pauio breviore, postice parum angustato, lateri- 

 bus late rotundatis, postice sinuatis, margine fortius reflexo, anguHs postici* 

 rectis, basi sinuatim truncata, elytris oblongis, basi late emarginaiis, humeris 

 reciis, striis punctatis baud impressis, interstitiis planis, parce rugulosis, bi- 

 seriatim subtiliter pun^tulatis, antennispedibusque piceo rufis, abdomine pros- 

 ternoque parces subtiliter punctulatis gula anlice vix punctulata, postice, laeve 

 nitida. Long. -28. 



T. sinuata Lee. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1861, p. 344. 



East of Fort Colville, one specimen ; Mr. Gibbs. This species resembles in 

 appearance T, corticalis MeU., and several others from the Atlantic States, 

 but is easily known by the thorax being less transverse and less narrowed be- 

 hind, v/ith the hind angles more prominent, and the base not rounded, but 

 nearly truncate and sinuate, and slightly emarginate at the middle. 



B— 3. 



14. T. c u c u j i f o r m is, rufa, valde depressa, capite thoraceque parce 

 grosse punctatis, hoc lateribus rotundatis, antice latiore, postice parum angus- 

 tato, margine vix reflexo, angnlis posticis parvis, obtusis,basi rotundato, elytris 

 oblongis, humeris rectis, basi vix emarginatis, striis punctatis, interstitiis 

 planis, parce rugulosis, biseriatim subtiliter punctulatis, abdomine subtiliter 

 punctulatis prosterno grosse punctato, gula antice punctulata, postice trans- 

 verse plicata. Long. -20. 



One specimen, Pennsylvania ; Dr. Le Conte. This is the most depressed spe- 

 cies of the group. Its upper surface is flat, much more so than in any other 

 known species. The thorax is about one half wider than long, with the sides 

 moderately rounded, scared}- converging posteriorly. 



15. T. nigrita, nigro-picea subnitida, modice depressa, capite thoraceque 

 parce grosse punctatis, hoc lateribus rotundatis, margine fortiter reflexo, angu- 

 lis posticis obtusis, basi rotundato, elytris oblongis, humeris rectis. basi late 

 emarginatis, striis punctatis, interstitiis convexis, rugulosis, biseriatim subtili- 

 ter punctulatis, gula antice grosse punctata, postice laevi, prosterno parce sub- 

 tiliter punctulato, abdomine confertim punctulata. Long. -22 — -30. 



Kansas, two specimens ; Dr. Le Conte. This species resembles the casta- 

 n e a, Mels. It may be readily distinguished by the less transverse thorax, the 

 more reflexed margin and more rounded sides. The interstrial spaces are more 

 convex and rugulose than in either of the two succeeding species. 



16. T. cast an e a, nigro-picea, modice depressa, capite thoraceque con- 

 fertim subtiliter punctulatis, hoc lateribus rotundatis, margine reflexo, angnlis 

 posticis obtusis parvis ; basi vix rotundato, elytris elougato-ovalibus basi vix 

 emarginatis, striis punctatis, interstitiis modice convexis rugulosis, biseriatim 

 subtiliter punctulatis, gula antice parce grosse punctata, postice laevi, prosterno 

 parce punctata, abdomine confertim punctulato. Long. -42. 



T. castanea, Meis. Proc. Acad. ii. 109. 



T. brevicolliK, Dej. Catalogue (?) 



Texas, common. This is the broad depressed species so common in our 

 Southern States. The ihorux is broader than in the preceding species, and is 

 less deeply and coarsely punctured. 



IT. T. 1 a t i 11 is, nigro-picea, modice depressa, capite thoraceque confertim 

 subtiliter punctulatis, hoc tiansverso, latitudine duplo breviore, lateribus ro- 

 tundatis, margine reflexo basi rotundato, angulis posticis obtusis parvis, elytris 

 oblongo-ovalibus, basi vix emarginatis, humeris rectis. striis punctatis, inter- 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



stitiis planis, vix rug-ulosis biseriatim subtiliter punctulatis, subtus subtiliter 

 puuctulata. Lon?. -35. 



Southern and Western States; Dr. Le Conte. Closely allied to the preceding 

 species. Differing in the much more transverse thorax, and the flat scarcely 

 rugulose interstrial spaces. 



18. T. b i m a c u 1 a t a, nigro asnea. subnitida raodice depressa, capite 

 tboraceqae confertim punctulatis boo transverse, lateribus rotundatis, margine 

 vix reflexo, angulis posticis parvis obtusis, basi rotundato, elytris elongato- 

 ovalibus, macula flava ante medium, basi vix emarginatis, versus humeros im- 

 pressis, striis punctatis, interstitiis raodice convexis, valde rugulosis, biseriatim 

 subtiliter puuctulatis, gula antice subtiliter punctulata, postice biseriatim trans- 

 verse plicata. Long. -20. 



T. bimaculata, Mels., Proc. Acad. ii. 



Middle States, rare; Southern States common. Maybe readily distinguished 

 by the subtransverse thorax with rounded sides and the brassy refulgence of 

 the elytra, which have an irregularly shaped yellow spot, slightly in advance 

 of the middle. 



19. T. o b s c u r a, rufo-picea, subnitida, modice depressa, capite thoraccque 

 parce punctatis, hoc transverso, lateribus rotundatis, margine modice reflexo. 

 antice latiore postice vix angustato, angulis postice parvis vix acutis, basi mo- 

 dice rotundato, elytris oblongo-ovalibus, basi vix emarginatis, humeris rectis. 

 stiils punctatis valde impressis, interstitiis modice convexis, rugulosis, biseria- 

 tim subtiliter punctulatis, abdomine prosternoque parce subtiliter [lunctulalis, 

 gula antice coufertim punctulata, postice modice plicaia. Long. -20. 



Illinois ; two specimens, Dr. Le Conte. Resembles the bimaculat.i Mels. 

 The thorax is less transverse and sides less rounded, the punctures are coarser 

 and less closely placed. The interstrial spaces are much less elevated and ru- 

 gulose. 



20. T. r u g s i p e n n i s, rufo-picea, modice depressa, capite thoraceque, 

 confertim punctatis, hoc transverso, lateribus roluudatis, ])ostice vix angustato, 

 margine vix reflexo, angulis posticis obtusis parvis, basi modice rotundato, 

 elytris oblongo-ovalibus, basi emarginatis, versus humeros impressis, striis 

 punctatis, interstitiis convexis valde rugulosis, biseriatim subtiliter punctulatis, 

 abdomine prosternoque parce punctatis, gula antice punctulata, postice subpli- 

 cata. Long. -17. 



One specimen, Pennsylvania: Dr. Le Conte. This is the smallest known 

 North American species. Its form is more convex, and the sides of tie thonx 

 are more narrowed than in the other species of this group. The interstrial 

 spaces of the elytra are very convex and ruguloj'e, the intermediate rows of 

 punctures are quite large, giving to the elytra a roughened appearance not seen 

 in any other member of toe genus. 



B— 4. 



21. T. obtusa, ferruginea. subnitida, valde depressa, capite thoraceque 

 conftrtim subtiliter punctulatis, hoc lateribus valde rotundatis, antice latiore, 

 postice angustato, margine vix reflexo, basi rotundato, medio emarginato, an- 

 gulis parvis minutis, vix prominulis, elytris oblongis, basi rectis, striis punc- 

 tatis, interstitiis planis parce rugulosis, biseriatim subtiliter punctulatis, abdo- 

 mine gula prosternoque parce subtiliter punctulatis. Long. -27. 



Two specimens, Pennsylvania, H., Dist. Columbia; Ulke, 



This species may be readily known from any other by its more elongated de- 

 pressed form, the posterior angles of the thorax small, scarcely evident* and 

 sides much rounded. The width of the base equals about one half the width 

 anteriorly. Its form is more depressed than any other Trogosita, the lateral 

 view being almost linear. 



1862.J 




05 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The following species cannot be properly identified from the descriptions 

 given : 



T. americana Kirby, N. Z. 166. 



T. subnigra Beauv., Ins. 127, tab. 32, fig. 9. 



T. depresxior " " 126, " fig. 7. 



T. marginata " " 12."), " fig- 3. 



The marginata of Beau v. may be an immature form of n an a Mels. ; de- 

 press i o r may be mauritanica Linn. The catalogue of Dejean contains 

 many species named from Xorth America ; as no desciiptions have ever been 

 given of the greater part of them, their synonymy cannot be determined. 



Trogorita p u s i 11 i m a Mann. Bull. Mosc. 1843, 302, does not belong to the 

 genus ; it is, however, unknown to me. 



Descriptions of PLANTS.— No. 3. 

 BY S. B. BUCKLEY. 



GKAMINEiE. 



Polypogon alopecuroides, s. n. — Radice fibrosa ; culmo erecto (6 — 8 

 policar.) glabro ; vaginis glabris ; ligulis elongatis (3 — 4 lin.) membranaceis 

 iutegerriiuis vel tarde fissis ; foliis planis glabris (2—4 policar.); panicala 

 terminali (I5— 2 policar. Ion. 3 — 4 lin. lata) den.siflora ; glumis paulo 

 inajqnalibus dorsis scabris margiiiibus liyaliuis, apicibus brevi-aristatis ; val- 

 vulis albo hyalinis gluraa ^ brevioribus, inferiore louge aristata. 



Columbia plains, Oregon; Nuttall. 



Bristles of the lower valve 3 — 4 lines long and more than double the length 

 of those of the glumes ; awn of the lower glume a little larger than that of the 

 upper ; rays short, fasciculated, compound and many flowered ; glumes tinged 

 with purple. 



Vilfa agrostoidea, s. n. — Culmo deoumbeute (3 — 4 pedali) glabro 

 tereti ; foliis lineari-lanceolatis ; vaginis internodio parum brevioribus fauci- 

 bus dense pilosis ; panicula elongata 4 — 8-policari basi nonnunquam in vagina 

 inclusa ; spiculis glabris parvis ovatis acutis ; glumis inaequalibas inferiore 

 superiore duplo breviore ; valvulis subasqualibus glabris acutis gluma longi- 

 oribus ; caryopsi rotunda ovata breviter apiculata glabra. 



Llano County, Texas. 



Panicles axillary and terminal; also often with their bases enclosed in the 

 sheaths, especially in a dry season, when at least one-half of the panicle is 

 thus encased ; rays opposite or alternate, scarcely more than an inch in length 

 and appressed ; flowers numerous and tinged with reddish-brown ; upper 

 glume nearly as long as the palea, which are shortly pointed ; throat of the 

 sheath densely bearded with long white hairs, which sometimes^exteud about 

 an inch downward on the margins of the sheath. Radical leaves a foot or 

 more in length, and cauline leaves 2 — 6 inches long, and about 2 lines wide. 



Sporobolus (Vilfa) angustus, s. n. — Radice fibrosa; culmo erecto 2 — 3 

 pedali, tereti simplice glabro ; vaginis striatulis glabris internodio duplice 

 brevioribus ; ligulis nuUis ; foliis glabriusculis auguste linearibus apice 

 setaceis ; panicula elongata 5 — 8-pnlicari anguste coarctata ; glumis ina^quali- 

 bus, inferiore ovata acuta vel obtusa valvula | — ^ breviore ; superiore acuta 

 inferiorem fere duplo excedente ; valvulis iusequalibus muticis membranaceis 

 acutis ; caryopsi ovoidea ellipsoidea obtuse caduea. 



Buchanan County. June. 



Glumes variable, the loner being not half the lengthi of the upper and obtuse, 

 and again nearly equal to it in length and acute ; valves nearly equal or one 

 almost \ longer than the other, nerveless, or the lower obscurely 1 — 3 nerved ; 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



panicle 4 — 6 lines in width ; rciys numerous and densely flowered ; leaves 

 4 — 8 inches long ; palea ^ longer than the seed. 



Vilfa rigid a, s. n. — Culmo glabro rigido erecto 2 — 3-pedali tereti ; vaginis 

 glabris ; ligulis breviter ciliatis ; foliis glabris convolutis 6 — 8-policar. 1 

 lin. latis ; panicula patente terminale stricta ; radiis compositis solitariis 

 infimis basi nudis glabris ; spiculis acutis circum. 3 lin. Jongis ; glumis inse- 

 qualibus lanceolatis acutis inferiori superiore ^ breviori ; valvulis subsequali- 

 bus glabris acuminatis basi pilosis glumam superiorem jequantibus aut parum 

 excedentibus. 



Oregon ? In the herbarium of the Academy, without a label. 



Panicle 6 — 8 inches long and 2 inches broad in the widest part; lower 

 branches two inches long, with the lower half naked, and the upper with 

 short alternate branches, containing two or three florets each on short pedicels ; 

 upper branches with flowers from the base to the top. 



Vilfa (Sporobulus) alba, s. n. — Culmo erecto glabro tereti simplici ; vaginis 

 glabris internodio longioribus aut parum brevioribus ; ligulis membranaceis 

 apice laciniatis ; foliis planiusculis 4 — 8-policaribus glabris ; panicula coarctata 

 albescente 3 — 4-policari ; glumis iusequalibus scabriusculis inferiore lineare 

 subacuta, superiore ovata acuta palea breviore ; valvulis insequalibus sub- 

 acutis muticis. 



Oregon. Spalding. 



Culm 1 — 2 feet high ; panicle contracted, densely flowered, 4 — S lines wide 



. and base scarcely exserted from the upper sheath ; lower glume about half as 



wide as the upper, and uearly j shorter ; upper glume keeled, more or less 



obscurely 3 nerved ; and little shorter than the lower valve, upper valve not 



much longer than the lower, and both nerveless. 



Sporobulus (Vilfa) arenaceus, s. n. — Radice fibrosa; culmo erecto vel 

 decumbeute 6 — 10-policari ; foliis lineari-setaceis ; i — 3 policaribus ; vaginis 

 scabriusculis striatulis internodio longioribus vel brevioribus ; ligulis mera- 

 branaceis lacineatis 3 — 6 lin. Ion.; panicula patentissima : radiis inasqualibus 

 capillaribus paucifloris ; spiculis acutis ; glumis insequalibus uninerviis acutis 

 hyalinis valvula ^ brevioribus ; valvulis subsequalibus uninerviis vel carinatis ; 

 acutis aut mucronatis caducis ; caryopsi ellipsoidea caduca. 



Hill sides. Western Texas. 



Radical leaves and abortive stems numerous ; panicle 3 — 4 inches long, and 

 its lower branches about 2 inches in length ; pedicles one flowered. 



Uralepis (Tricuspis) elongata, s. n. — Culmo erecto aut decumbente glabro 

 ad nodos piloso ; vaginis scabris internodium obtegentibus faucibus pilosis mar- 

 ginibus parce ciliatis ; foliis planis aut convolutis 8 — 12 policar. longis 1 — 2 

 lin. latis; panicula elongata 7 — 9 policar. Ion. 2 — 3 lin. lata basi inclusa ; 

 rachi tereti scabra ; radiis solitariis erectis ; spiculis oblongis acutis 5 — 7-floris 

 breviter pedicellatis ; glumis ovatis subsequalibus acuminatis paniculis infimis 

 spiculam superantibus, superioribus spicula brevioribus ; valvulis ovatis 

 3-nerviis basi et margiue infra dense ciliata, apice breviter 3-dentata, medio 

 dente breviter cuspidato ; valvula superiore apice bifida ovata J valvula 

 superiore breviori. 



Northern Texas. May. 



Internodes of the rachis 1 — 2 inches long, and the rays of about the same 

 length, with spikelets from base to top. Spikelets somewhat terete ; pedicels 

 1 — 3 lines long. Glumes on the lower part of the panicle as long or longer 

 than the spikelets, above they are shorter than the spikelets. 



Vilfa (Sporobulus) varians, s. n. — Culmo erecto (12—1.5 policari) ; va- 

 ginis internodium superantibus ; ligulis setiformibus ; foliis planiusculis mar- 

 giue scabriusculis convolutis ; panicula (5 — 6-policari) diffusa basi inclusa : 

 1862.] 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



glumis inaequalibiis, inferiore linear! acuta valvula breviore, superiore ovata 

 acuta valvula parum breviore ; valvulis inaequalibus aut sequalibus mutiuis. 



Dry plains at the base of the Rocky Mountains. Nuttall. 



Smooth and of a pale green ; leaves and sheaths of abortive culms, nume- 

 rous at the base ; panicle somewhat spreading, with the lower branches (2 — 3 

 inches long) appressed upward, with many flowers on short brauchlets ; 

 glumes and valves very variable, and more or less unequal, green, with 

 chartaceous margins ; stem leaves 4 — G inches long and the upper portions 

 filamentose. 



Sporobulus (Vilfa) d i f f u s i s s i m u s, s. n. — Tota glabra ; eulmo erecto 

 simplici 2 pedali ; vaginis internodio brevioribus ; ligulis pauci- pilosis ; foliis 

 8 — 12-policaribus planis aut convolutis apice filiformibus ; panicula diffusa 

 ampla pyrimidale ; radiis filiformibus patentibus ramosis ; glumis hyalinis 

 ovatis muticis insequalibus valvula brevioribus ; valvulis muticis lato-ovatis 

 subcequalibus albo-hyalinis caryopsi parum longioribus ; caryopsi ellipsoidea 

 obtusa. 



Western Texas. 



Panicle spreading, its lower branches 4 — 6 inches long and refracted ; upper 

 sheath 3 — 4 inches below the panicle ; flowers rather numerous, on short 

 branchlets. 



Vilfa (Sporobulus) Sabeana, s. n. — Decumbens culmis basi numerosis 

 teretibus ; foliis planis (2 — 6-policar. ) marginibus scabris ; vaginis internodio 

 brevioribus faucibus villosis ; paniculis terminalibus lateralibusque patentibus 

 subpyrimidalibus et albescentibus ; radiis capillaribus infimis verticellatis, su- 

 perioribus alternatis 10 — 15-tloris ; glumis inEsqualibus, inferiore parva su- 

 periore I breviori ; valvulis sequalibus acutis ; glumis et paleis albo-hyalinis ; 

 caryopsi ovoidea obtusa castanea. 

 San Saba County, Texas. 



Culms 1 — 2 feet long, often divaricately branched near the root ; panicles 

 3 — 4 inches in length ; lower 12 — 15 lines long ; seeds caducous ; when ma- 

 ture the glumes and valves are translucent ; upper glume as long as the 

 valves. 



Agrcstis aquatic a, s. nov.— Radice fibrosa repente ; culmis decumbenti- 

 bus teretibus striatulis glabris; foliis linearibus planis 2 — 3-poUcaribus; ligulis 

 scabrosis ovatis 5 — 9-nervosis acutis vel subobtusis ; vaginis striatulis inter- 

 nodio brevioribus ; panicula coarctata decomposita densiflora ; radiis filiformi- 

 bus, subverticellatis ; glumis aequalibus scabrosis acutis vel subobtusis ovatis ; 

 valvulis ovatis subacutis aut obtusis gluma ^ brevioribus callo utrinque breve 

 piloso ; rudimento nullo. 



On small floating islands in the mill-pond or large spring at San Saba, the 

 capital of San Saba County. 



Achenia ovate, smooth; stems Iv— 2 feet long, decumbent, growing in 

 dense tufts ; leaves 2—3 inches long and 2 — 3 lines wide ; valves transparent. 

 Agrostis scabriuscula, s. n. — Radice repente fibrosa; culmo basi pro- 

 cumbente erecto glabro tereti 12 — 15-policari; vaginis scabriusculis internodio 

 brevioribus ; ligula ovata acuta integerrima seu parum fissa ; foliis scabris 

 planis 3 — 4-policaribus, 2 — 3 lin. latis ; panicula ampla iuterrupte rubescente 

 7 — S-policari ; radiis scabris semiverticellatis inffiqualibus 5— 7-nis apice ra- 

 mosis et subdensifloris, inferne 4 — 5-policaribus ; glumis parum inaequalibus 

 acutis scabris valvula solitaria ^ longioribus ; callo antrorsum brevissime bar- 

 bato ; rudimento nullo. 



Oregon ; Columbia Plains. Nuttall. 



Branches of the panicle semi-verticellate and naked below, about midway 

 verticellately branched, the flowers being near the summit of the branchlets, 

 on pedicels more or less elongated; pedicels one flowered ; base of the panicle 

 often sheathed. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 91 



Agrostis albicans, s. n. — Culmo erecto glabro simplici subgeniculato, 

 2 — 3 pedali ; foliis planis glabris 4 — 5-policaribu3 ; vaginis internodio breviori- 

 bus ; ligulis ovatis lanceolatis acutis aut apice fissis; panicula interrupta 

 subcoarctata elongata 5 — 9-policari ; radiis lateralibus confertis insequalibus 

 scabrius<-ulis densifloris ; glumis aequalibus aut parum insequalibus lance- 

 olatis acutis dorsis scabris viridescentibus lateralibus albo-hyalinis ; valvulis 

 hyalinis subacutis gluma ^ brevioribus callo nudo ; receptaculum nullum. 



Oregon, Columbia Woods. Nuttall. 



Intervals between branches of the panicle | — 1 inch long and the branches 

 1 — 1^ inches long ; panicle greenish white. 



Muhlenbergia arenicola, s. n. — Radice fibrosa culmo erecto tereti glabro 

 12 — 18-policari ; foliis linearibus convolutis 2 — G-policarisbus ; vaginis inter- 

 nodium sequantibus aut excedentibus striatulis glabris ; ligulis membranaceis 

 linearibus acutis vel laciuiatis 4 — 6 lin. ; paniculis terminalibus diffusis ; 

 radiis capillaribus ramosis ; glumis subaequalibus scabriusculis acutis valvula 

 brevioribus, iuferiore breviter aristata ; valvulis sequalibus inferiore breviter 

 aristata. 



Arid places in Western Texas. 



Stem leaves few and also the radical leaves, which are short ; panicle 

 spreading, its lower branches 3 — 4 inches in length, which have branchlet? 

 4—8 lines long, with 3 — 6 flowers on pedicels 5 — 10 lines in length ; pedicels 

 one- flowered ; valves about twice the length of the glumes, with bristles 2 — 4 

 lines long. 



Muhlenbergia monticola, s. n. — Caule ramoso decumbente glabro ; foliis 

 convolutis2 — 4-policaribus ligula 4 — 6 lin. fissa vel integerrima ; panicula co- 

 arctata basi inclusa glumis insequalibus acutis valvula brevioribus ; paleis 

 insequalibus scabrosis basi pilosis, inferiore longe aristata. 



Northwestern Texas. 



Stems 1 — 1,} feet long ; lateral branches with small, slightly exserted pani- 

 cles ; awns 3 — 4 times longer than the ; brownish red valves ; lower 

 valve linear, ^ shorter than the upper, and gradually elongated into the awn ; 

 some of the pairs of valves are nearly equal in length ; panicles 3—4 inches 

 long ; upper glume 5 shorter than the upper valve ; glumes equal, or the 

 lower J shorter ; keels green and scabrous, sides hyaline. 



Muhlenbergia p a u c i f 1 r a, s. n. — Culmo subdecumbente 12 — 18-poli- 

 cari ; foliis convolutis apice setaceis glabriusculis ; vaginis internodio parum 

 brevioribus ; ligulis membranaceis linearibus subobtusis ; paniculis 2 — 3-poli- 

 caribus interruptis paucifloris ; glumis ovatis acutis aequalibus subcarinatis 

 va'vula f brevioribus ; valvulis lanceolatis inferiore valde 3-nervia et longe 

 aristata ; spiculis rufeseentibus ; cariuis et nervis subviridescentibus. 



Hill sides. Western Texas. 



Panicle terminal, with short appressed branchlets of 4 — 6 flowers, each of a 

 brownish red color ; bristles longer than the flowers. 



Muhlenbergia T e x a n a, s. n. — Culmo erecto ad basin decumbente gracile 

 (4 — 6-policari) tereti ; foliis subsetaceis scabriusculis ; vaginis internodio 

 brevioribus 6 — 12 lin. longis convolutis ; panicula elongata 4— 5-policari 

 lucida patixla ; radiis alternatis capillaribus 3— 5 -floris ; spiculis minutis ovatis 

 acutis ; glumis pilosis sequalibus valvula parum brevioribus ; valvulis lance- 

 olatis acutis subjequalibus, inferiore in aristam flosculo parum breviorem 

 terminata ; caryopsi lineari-ellipsoidea subobtusa glabra palea j breviore. 



Northern Texas. May. 



Roots small and fibrous ; culms 1—2 inches long, scabrous, terminated by 

 the elongated open panicle ; lateral panicles small, scarcely exserted from the 

 sheaths of the lower leaves. 

 1862.] 




92 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Calamagrostis Oregonensis. s. u.— Culmo geniculate erecto 1^ — 2 

 pedali glabro ; vaginis glabris ; ligula elongata membranacea ; foliis planis 

 yel convolutis glabris 4— S-policaribus 1—3 lin. latis ; panicula contracta sub- 

 interrupta 3 — 5-policari 'longis ; radiis 5 — 7-nis compositis angalatis scabris ; 

 glumia inffiqualibus glabriusculis acutis, inferiore sub 3-nervia flosculo pa- 

 rum longiore, superiore valvulam subsequante ; valvulis parum inaequali- 

 bus, inferiore bidentata dorso aristata ; aristisque et pilis corollam exceden- 

 tibus. 



Columbia River. Nuttall. 



Internodes on the panicle about J an inch long ; glumes tinged with purple. 



Calamagrostis r u b e s c e n s, s. n. — Culmo glabro (2 — 3 pedali) erecto; 

 vaginis glabris; ligula elongata (3 — 4 lin.) membranacea apice fissa ; foliis 

 planis parce pubescentibus ; panicula coarctata 3 — 4-policari 6 lin. lata ; 

 radiis fasciculatis compositis confertissimis multifloris ; glumis paulo injequali- 

 bus lanceolatis acuminatis glabris aut parce scabris rubescentibus ; valvulis 

 glabriusculis iutegerrimis acutis ; arista torta paulo infra medium vel ad 

 basin inserta et valvulam subsequante ; pilis numerosis valvula J — J brevi- 

 oribus. 



Oregon. Nuttall. 



Rachis and branches of the panicle terete and glabrous ; branches ei-ect, 

 rigid, about an inch in length, with numerous pedicels, more or less bent and. 

 densely flowered ; internodes of the rachis ^ — 1 inch in length. 



Calamagrostis albicans, s. n. — Culmo erecto glabro supra scabro 3 — 4 

 pedali ; vaginis glabris ; ligula membranacea apice Integra obtusa tarda parum 

 fissa 1— 2 lin. longa ; foliis planis marginibus scabris 1 — 1^^ pedalibus ; pani- 

 cula 6 — 9 lin. longa subcoarctata vel patente ; radiis 5-nis basi ramosis et 

 supra compositis angulatis scabris ; glumis insequalibus lanceolatis acutis, 

 inferiore valvulam superante, superiore corollam sequante ; valvulis Jequali- 

 bus, inferiore glabra apice bifida arista dorsali parum longiore; pilis flosculo 

 2 brevioribus ; rudimento brevissimo. 



Oregon, Columbia Plains. Nuttall. 



Internodes of the panicle i — 1 inch long ; rays fasciculated, erect and 

 branching about a line from the base, and also above ; sides of the glumes 

 membranaceous and white ; the palea are also moi-e or less hyaline and white ; 

 bristle often near the base, or abour the middle of the lower valve, rarely near 

 the top ; it is i shorter than the valve. 



Aristida c u r t i s e t a, s. n. — Tota glabra, culmo simplici glabro erecto 

 6 — 8-policari ; vaginis internodio brevioribus ; ligulis pauci pilosis ; foliis 

 radicalibus plurimis convolutis filiformibus ; panicula stricta paucifiora ; ra- 

 diis geminis inaequalibus unifloris ; glumis zequalibus aut insequalibixs carl- 

 uatis paleam aequantibus vel superantibus ; palea inferiore valde o-nervia ; 

 setis brevibus insequalibus. 



Northern Texas. May. 



Bristles 4 — 8 lines long, 2 — 3 parted and sometimes undivided ; leaves of 

 the stem 2 inches long ; radical leaves 3 — 4 inches in length ; joints of the 

 stem obscure. 



Aristida pauci flora, s. n. — Radice fibrosa; culmo rigido erecto IJ — 2 

 pedali ad nodos ramoso et subgeniculato ; foliis radicalibus convolutis fila- 

 mentis culmum aequantibus vel superantibus glabriusculis ; ligulis nuUis aut 

 brevissime pilosis ; panicula pauciflora glumis insequalibus apice setaceis 

 flosculum superantibus scabriusculis ; flosculo glabro compresso vel angulato 

 apice non torto ; aristis 3 insequalibus 1^ — 2 policaribus ; radiis unifloris 

 solitariis 2 — 4 lin. longis. 



Northern Texas. 



It has abortive stems and leaves at the joints, which are often not sheathed 

 at the base ; upper leaves mixed with the panicle, which has 5 — S solitary 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 98 



flowers; lower glume strongly 3-nerved; nerves green, or sliglitly tinged 

 with reddish brown ; the midrib of both glumes is prolonged into bristles, 

 the one exceeding the other 3 — 4 lines. 



Aristida filipendula, s. n. — Culmo erecto glabro, firmo simplici tereti 

 1.] — 2 pedali ; foliis paucis convolutis 3 — 8-policaribus vaginis glabris inter- 

 nodio brevioribus ; lignlis breve pilosis ; panicula interrupta 7 — 9-policari ; 

 radiis capillaribus insequantibus flexuosis longissimis (1 — 2 policaribus) ; 

 glumis iusequalibus mucronatis, inferiore tlosculo J breviore, superiore 

 llosculum superante ; tlosculo scabro et albo-punctato apice torto ad basin pi- 

 loso ; setis 3 subsequalibiis lato divaricatis circum If policaribus. 



Western Texas. June. 



Flowers purple and somewhat fascicled on short pedicels near the ends of 

 the filiform branches. 



This is a common species on dry hills, often being found in the vicinity of 

 the dens of the stinging ant. It differs from the A. purpurea of Nutt. in 

 its shorter bristles, scabrous and dotted florets, which are often more or less 

 twisted at the top. It also flowers about two months later, the A. purpurea 

 flowering the last of Mai'ch and first of April, being then veiy common and 

 conspicuous on the prairies of Northern Texas, with its purple panicles, with 

 bristles 3—4 inches long, waving in the wind. 



The Aristida longisetaof Steudel is apparently founded on dwarf speci- 

 mens of A. purpurea, judging from specimens collected by Fendler in New 

 Mexico which are in the Herbarium of the Academy. 



" Bouteloua p u m i 1 a, s. n. — Radice fibrosa ; culmis basi ramosis genicu- 

 latis glabris 4 — ti-policaribus ; vaginis glabris ; ligula breve membranacea apice 

 multilaciniata ; foliis planis glabris 1 — 2 policaribiis 1 lin. latis ; spicis secuudis 

 solitariis breviter pedicellatis 20—30 spiculatis ; spiculis ovatis densis 2 — 3- 

 floris : glumis 2 ovatis injeqnalibus carinatis apice brevisetis ; superiore 

 flosculum sequante ; valvulis hermaphroditis ovatis inferiore tridentata glabra 

 margine ciliata, superiore glabra tridentata basi et apice breviter ciliata ; 

 flosculo sterili triaristato ; sells hermaphroditam sequantibus. 

 Northwestern Texas. 



Growing in tufts on hill sides ; culms slender ; spikes 3 — 4 on a stem, 

 2 — 1 inch distant ; florets, including the bristles, about a line in length. 



Bouteloua br e V 1 foil a, s. n. — Radice fibrosa; culmis basi numerosis 

 erectis teretibus pilosis geniculatis ; vaginis glabriusculis ; ligulis pilosis ; 

 foliis convolutis aut planis glabris 1 — 2-policaribus circum 1 lin. latis; spicis 

 secundis breviter pedicellatis ; pedicellis valde pilosis ; rachi compresso parce 

 scabro 10 — 15 floro ; spiculis bifloris brevissime pedicellatis alternatis con- 

 fertis ; glumis glabris insequalibus, inferiore lineari-subulata superiore duplo 

 breviore ; inferiore glabra apice breviter aristata ; flosculo sterili 3-aristato. 



Northwestern Texas. 



Growing in tufts on dry hill sides ; roots perennial ; bristles of the neutral 

 florets little longer than those of the upper glume ; culms 1 — 2 feet high ; 

 spikes 2 — 1 inch long ; hairs of the stem white, numerous and suberect. 



Uralepis (Tricuspis) brevicuspidata, s. n. — Culmo glabro (3— 4-pe- 

 dali) erecto geniculato ; vaginis glabris internodio brevioribus ; ligula brevis- 

 sima laciniata ; foliis scabris 6 — 12-policaribus 3 — 4 lin. latis ; panicula pa- 

 tente 8 — 14 policari long. 4 — 6 policari lato ; radiis solitariis aut gemi- 

 nis a basi floriferis scabris 4 — 6-policaribus multispicatis ; spiculis 5 — 7- 

 floris obovatis distichis breviter pedicellatis ; glumis parum insequalibus 

 carinatis dorso scabris acuminatis flosciilis brevioribus ; valvula inferiore tri- 

 nervia apice bifida margine breviter ciliata, medio dente brevissimo aristato ; 

 lateralibus dentibus obtusiusculis scariosis. 



Northern Texas. May. 



1862.] 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Branches of the panicle mostly solitary, with spikes 3 — 4 lines distant from 

 their bases to their summits ; axils at the base of the rays pubescent ; pedi- 

 cels about a line in length ; spikes 3 — 4 lines long and two lines wide, loosely 

 flowered ; intervals on the rachis, between the branches, 1 — 2 lines long. 



Uralepis (Tricuspis) p 11 o s a, s. n. — Radice fibrosa csespitifera ; culmis 

 erectis (6 — 12-policaribus) basi numerosis glabris ; vaginis internodio breviori- 

 bus faucibus pilosis ; ligulis nullis aut villosis ; foliis basi plurimis striatulis 

 marginibus albis, 2— 4-policaribus 1 — 2 lin. latis ; panicula coarctata subcapi- 

 tata ; radiis solitariis alternatis 2 — 4-spicatis angulatis scabris ; spiculis lato- 

 ovatis distichis 8 — 12-floris ; glumis subsequalibus ovatis acutis carinatis ; 

 valvula inferiore 3-nervia basi et margine ciliata neuris viridescentibus caeteris 

 albido-membranaceis, apice 3-dentata, medio dente exserto cuspidato ; valvula 

 interiore apice iutegerrima subobtusa. 



Middle Texas. 



Dry hill sides, growing in tufts ; spikes about J an inch long and 4 lines 

 broad; pedicels filiform, 2 — 3-spiked ; panicle 1 — Ih inch long and J of an 

 inch wide, compressed and greenish white ; hairs of the valves numerous, 

 white, 3 — 4 lines long ; ligules none, unless the hairs at the mouth of the 

 sheath be considered as such. The two lateral nerves of the lower valve are 

 on or near its margins. 



Uralepis (Tricuspis) po so ides, s. n.— Culmo tereti glabro (1 — 2 pedali) 

 erecto ; vaginis glabris internodis longioribus ; ligula membranacea ovata 

 Integra 2 lin. longa ; foliis glabris 2 — 5 policaribns 1 — 2 lin. latis; pani- 

 cula terminali patente 3 — 4-policari, 4—6 lin. latis ; radiis 2— 3-nis erectis 

 basi nudis compositis parum scabrosis angulatis ; glumis subaequalibus acutis 

 glabris aut parum scabris spicula J — h brevioribus ; spiculis ovatis teretibus 

 acutis 4 — 5-floris ; valvula inferiore ovata infra mediam villosa apice breviter 

 3-dentata, dentibus lateralibus obtusis, medio dente brevi-cuspidato ; valvnla 

 superiore bicarinata, carinis breviter ciliatis. 



New Mexico. Fendler, 932. 



Internodes of the rachis \ — 1 inch long ; lower rays about 2 inches long, 

 and the lower half naked ; the upper rays are i— i an inch long, with spikes 

 on short pedicels from the base to the summit. 



Uralepis (Tricuspis) densiflOra, s. n. — Radice fibrosa, culmo erecto ri- 

 oido simplici glabro ; vaginis glabris ore pilosis ; ligulis setaceis ; foliis planis 

 aut convolutis 10— 12-policaribus 2 — 3 lin. latis, radicalibus 15 — IS-policari 

 panicula elongata stricta 6 — 7-polieari 4—6 lin. lata ; ramis solitariis glabris 

 dense-spicatis 6 — 12 lin. longis ; spiculis 5 — 7-floris lato-ovalis ; glumis sub- 

 sequalibus glabris carinatis acutis lateralibus membranaceis carinis viride- 

 scentibus ; superiori apice bifida breve-aristata ; inferiore Integra basi nuda ; 

 valvula inferiore margine et dorso dense ciliata apice 3— 5-denticulata ; dente 

 medio breviter cuspidato. 



Middle Texas. 



Branches erect and appressed ; spikes about 3 lines long and nearly the 

 same width, numerous, with close diverging florets, the two upper forming 

 an open angle at the top ; intervals on the rachis between the branclilets 6 

 lines to one inch long. 



Uralepis (Tricuspis) composita, s. n.— Radice fibrosa; culmo erecto 

 glabro rigido 3— 4 pedali ad nodos ramoso : ramis erectis strictis ; vaginis 

 glabris ; ligulis 6—8 lin. longis apice fissis ; foliis glabris planis 8— 12-poli- 

 caribus 3 — 4 lin. latis ; panicula 8— 12-policari ; ramis solitariis aut geminis 

 erectis 3 — 4-policaribus dense spicatis glabris ; spiculis oblongo-ovatis 7-9- 

 floris breviter pedicellatis ; glumis intequalibus carinatis acutis dorso parum 

 scabris ; valvula inferiore basi et margine dense ciliata, superne glabra apice 

 tridenta, medio dente breve-aristato. 



New Mexico. Dr. Woodhouse. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



95 



It has 3—4 erect stems from one root, branched at the joints ; branches 

 erect, straight, M-ith large terminal panicles, densely flowered ; leaves at the 

 joints of the culm without sheaths and stems, smooth and naked below, the 

 base of the panicle is often sheathed by the upj)er leaves ; whole plant pale 

 green. 



Uralepis (Tricuspis) pilosa, s. n. — Culmo erecto rigiJo 1|^ — 2-pedali ; 

 vaginis pilosis internodium obtegentibus ; ligulis ciliatis ; foliis convolutis 

 rigidis numerosis parce ciliatis aut tarde glabris 6 — 12-policaribus 1 — 2 lin. 

 latis ; panicula terminale basi inclusa 2 — 3-policari 4 — 6 lin. latis dense-spi- 

 cata ; radiis solitariis compositis scabris ; glumis inasqualibus lanceolatis 

 acutis glabris ; valvula inferiore 3-uervia supra medium glabra basi dense 

 pilosa apice breve tricuspidata, dentibus lateralibus obtusis, dente medio 

 brevissima cuspidata. 



Northern Texas. 



Hairs of the sheath erect and numerous ; lower leaves abundant ; spikelets 

 3 — i lines long, packed closely on the short rays ; internodes of the rachis 

 4 — 6 lines long, scabrous. 



Pleuraphis mutica, s. n. — Culmo subprostrato geniculato glabro, (1^-pe- 

 dali) ; foliis planis parum scabris 3 — 4-policaribus 2 — 3 lin. latis ; vaginis fau- 

 cibus pilosis internodio brevioribus ; ligulis membranaceis laoiniatis ; spica 

 terminali 2 policari 5 — 6 lin. lata ; glumis lato-obovatis 5 — T-nerviis apice 

 albohyalinis breviter laciniatis iuermisbus ; valvulis subsequalibus muticis 

 • hyalinis vel 1 — 3-nerviis obtusis laciniatis. 



Northern Texas. 



It is a much smoother plant, with fewer leaves than P. J amesi i Torr. A 

 very few of its glumes with 7 nerves have a short bristle on each side below 

 the middle, formed by the extension of the lateral nerves ; nerves green, the 

 remainder hyaline. 



Glyceria bulbosa, s. n. — Culmo erecto; vaginis scabris; ligula brevis- 

 sime truncata ; foliis planis vel convolutis glabris ; radiis angulatis patenti- 

 bus compositis scabris ; spiculis 3 — 4-lioris oblongo-ovatis sublaxifloris ; 

 glumis glabris ovatis subacutis inferiore ^ breviore ; valvulis oblongis acutis 

 inferiore ovata obscure 7-nervia parum scabra, interiore margine ciliata. 



Columbia Woods. Nuttall. 



Glyeeria leptostachya, s. n. — Culmo erecto gracilenti tereti simpliei 

 basi geniculato ; vaginis glabris ; ligulis 3 — 4 lin. longis fissis ; foliis planis 

 glabris 6 policaribus 4 lin. latis ; panicula elongata circum 12 lin. longa inter- 

 rupta ; radiis geminis scabris angulatis ; spiculis 3 — 4-floris ; flosculis remo- 

 tiusculis obtusis scabris ; glumis membranaceis ; valvula inferiore distincte 

 7-nervia obovata apice obtusa scariosa, superiore obtusa apice membranacea. 



Oregon, Columbia River. Nuttall. 



Panicle about one foot long ; its branches double, and placed at intervals 

 of 1 — 2 inches on the stems, the longer branch about an inch in length, with 

 2 — 3 loose spikes of flowers on short pedicels, the shorter branch 3 — 4 lines 

 long, having one spike. 



Glyceria s t r i c t a, s. n. — Culmo rigido erecto tereti glabro 2— 3-pedali ; 

 vaginis glabris ; ligula brevissima truncata ; foliis planis vel convolutis glabris 

 6 — 12-policaribus, 2 — 3 lin. latis ; panicula stricta coarctata 5 — 6-policari 4 — 5 

 lin. lata; radiis 2 — 3-nis erectis scabris angulatis ; spiculis 3 — 4-floris glabris 

 laxis ; glumis inaequalibus uninerviis oblongo-ovatis acutis ; valvula inferiore 

 plus minus distincte 5-nervia oblougo acuminata glabra ; superne subacnta 

 integerrima. 



Middle Texas. 



Branches of the panicle erect and unequal, the longest naked near its base, 

 and with 3—4 spikes at and near its extremity ; the longest of the lowest 

 18ti2.] 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



3 branches is about 1| inch in length ; the remainder, the one is sessile and 

 one-spiked, the other nearly ^ an inch long and two-spiked; the upper 

 branches are about ^ an inch long and 1 — 3- flowered ; some of the palea are 

 smooth and nerveless, and others distinctly nerved ; florets 3 — 4 lines long, 

 the two upper somewhat divided from the lower, being distant from each 

 other on the rachis 1 — 2 lines. 



Glyceria micro thee a, s. n. — Caule erecto geniculato simplici glabro 

 tereti ; vaginis glabris internodio brevioribus ; ligulaconspicua apice fissa basi 

 decurrente ; foliis p'anis 3 — 4-policaribus et 3 — 4 lin. latis glabris ; panicula 

 patente 3— 4-policari 3 — 4 lin. lata ; radiis geminis compositis basi nudis 

 parum scabris ; spicuHs ovatis sub 5-floris ; glumis injequalibus scariosis ob- 

 tusis ; valvulis apice scariosis obtusis, inferiore distincte 5-nerviarare 7-nervia, 

 interiore apice bifida. 



Oregon, Columbia River. Nuttall. 



Panicle terminal, with few pairs of branches at intervals of i — 1 inch apart, 

 lower branches about 2 inches long ; spikes about 4 lines long and 1 — 2 broad 

 on filiform pedicels ; valves caducous, glumes persistent. 



Glyceria m o n t a n a, s. n. — Radice fibrosa ; culmo erecto tereti simplici 

 glabro 10 — 15-policari ; vaginis glabris internodio longioribus superiore mar- 

 ginibus albo-hyalinis ; ligula ovata integra 1 — 2 lin. longa ; foliis planis vel 

 convolutis 4 — 5 pol. longis et 1 — 2 lin. latis ; panicula elongata interrupta basi 

 iuclusa 3 — 5-policari 6 — S lin. lata ; radiis 2— 4-nis erectis compositis sca- 

 bris 1,]— 2-policaribus ; spiculis 3— 4-flori3 ovatis acutis ; glumis ovatis ; valvu- 

 lis ovatis acutis, infei'iore obscure 7-nervia. 



Rocky Mountains. Nuttall. 



Intervals on the rachis between the branches of the panicle ^ — 1 inch long ; 

 lower branches naked near the bases and 4—5 spikes at and near their ex- 

 tremities ; spikes small, pale green ; a semi-transparent membrane from the 

 ligula extends down along the margins of the sheath 1 — 2 inches. 



Poa laxi flora, s. n. — Culmo erecto 2 — 3-pedali simplici geniculato 

 scabro ; vaginis internodio multo brevioribus scabris ; ligula conspicua sub- 

 obtusa 2—3 lin. longa ; foliis planis scabris 4— 5-policaribus 2—3 lin. latis ; 

 panicula patente circum 6 policari ; radiis 2— 4-ni3 compositis filiformibus 

 1— 2-policaribus ; 3 — 4-stachyis ; spiculis pedicellatis 3 — 4-floris laxis ; glumis 

 inaequalibus acutis dorso scabris; valvula inferiore oblongo-ovata acuta 

 obscure 5-nervia glabra basi parum villosa ; interiore basi et dorso parce 

 ciliata. 



Oregon, Columbia Woods. Nuttall. 



Culm (j — 8 inches below the panicle, naked ; leaves few. 



Poa ten ui folia, s. n. — Radice fibrosa ; culmo geniculato glabro rigido 

 tereti (1 — IV pedali), vaginis internodio brevioribus glabris ; ligulis 3 — 4 lin. 

 longis ovatis fissis ; foliis planis vel convolutis basi plurimis (3 — 4-policaribus), 

 parum scabris aut glabris 1 — 2 lin. latis ; panicula coarctata 3 — 4-policari 



g 12 lin. lata; radiis 2—3 nis ad pressis scabris compositis apice multista- 



chyis ; spiculis 2 — 3-floris oblongo ovatis acutis : glumis subsequalibus ovatis 

 acutis scabris ; valvula inferiore margine et dorso scabra obscure 5-nervia 

 basi nuda ; interiore margine ciliata. . * 



Columbia River. Nuttall. 



Poa dens if lor a, s. n.— Culmo erecto (1}— 2 pedali) glabro; vaginis 

 internodium obtegentibus glabris ; ligula membranacea brevissima truncata ; 

 foliis planis (4— 9-policaribus) marginibus scabris 2— 3 lin. latis ; panicula 

 conferta parum interrupta 2— 8-policari 10—12 lin. lata ; radiis 5— T-nis 

 dense spicatis scabris; spiculis 5— 9-floris distichis lato-ovatis sublaxis ; 

 <Tlumis parum insequalibus carinatis dorso scabris acutis; valvula inferiore 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 97 



plus minus obscure 5 — 7 nervia acuminata basi et interiore parce lanosa aut 

 glabra. 



Northern Texas. April. 



Longest branches of the panicle about an inch in length and its upper half 

 densely spiked ; spikes in tNVos and threes on short pedicels ; short rays with 

 spikes of flowers at and near the base ; internodes on the rachis I — 1 inch 

 long. 



Eragrostis diffusa, s. n. — Culmo csespitoso erecto vel basi procumbente et 

 geniculato glabro ; foliis planis 6 — 8-policaribus et basi numerosis ; vaginis 

 glabris internodio brevioribus ore pilosis ; ligula margine longe ciliato ; pani- 

 cula diffusa ampla in long. 10 — 12-policaris, in latit. 6 — 9-policari ; radiis 

 8 — 4-nis aut solitariis scabris basi parce villosis 20 — 35 spiculatis ; spiculis 

 oblongo-ovatis acutis 9 — 11-floris ; glumis injequalibus acutis margine albo- 

 hyalinis inferiore i breviore ; valviaia inferiore valde 3-nervia ai-uta hyaliuo- 

 membranacea ; nervis viridescentibus ; valvula superiore virido-cariuata mar- 

 gine albo-hyalino persistente. 



Northern Texas. May. 



Stems from the root many, both procumbent and erect ; spikes 4 — 5 lines 

 long and 1 — IJ broad, and about equal to the pedicels in length ; pedicels 

 appressed to the stems ; lower valve about double the size of the upper, 

 leaves 3 — 4 lines broad, 5 — 7-uerved and glabrous. 



Eragrostis curtipedicellata, s. n. — Culmis erectis basi decumbenti- 

 ■ bus glabris 2 — 3 pedalibus ; vaginis glabris internodium obtegeutibus aut 

 brevioribus ore pilosis ; ligula margo ; foliis planis glabris 4 — 6-policaribus et 

 3 — 4 lin. latis ; panicula diffusa patente 10 — 12-policari in latit. B — 8-policari ; 

 radiis scabris solitariis alternis compositis ; axillis pilosis ; spiculis alternis 

 breviter pedicellatis 5 — 7-floris ; glumis subsequalibus ovatis acutis carinatis ; 

 valvula inferiore margine ciliata 3-nervia acuta ; carinis scabris ; superiore 

 apice breve hirsuta. 



Northern Texas. June. 



Pedicels generally shorter than the spikes, which are more or less appressed, 

 often touching each other on the branchlets, along which they extend from 

 the base or near the axils to the top ; spikes 2 — 3 lines long and about 1 line 

 wide. 



Eragrostis sessilispica, s. n. — Culmo decumbente ramoso glabro 

 rigido ; vaginis glabris internodium superantibus ore pilosissimis ; foliis 

 paucis planis glabris; panicula diffusissime 1 — 1^ pedali in. latit. 12 — 15- 

 policari ; radiis rigidis glabris compositis ; axillis pilosis ; spicis solitariis 

 alternatis sessilibus adpressis oblongo-ovatis 4— 6-floris ; glumis subjequali- 

 bus carinatis dorso scabris acuminatis ; valvula inferiore ovata longe acumi- 

 nata dorso scabriuscula ; superiore cariuata arcuata ad carinam leviter ciliata 

 persistente. 



Near Austin, Texas. 



Lower palea strongly 3-nerved, equal in length or little longer than the 

 upper, which is often curved outv^ard, leaving an open space between the 

 two ; spikes about ^ an inch distant, the lowest being in the axils, where 

 they (spikes) are sometimes double. 



Festuca gracilenta, s. n. — Radice fibrosa; culmis basi numerosis 

 geniculatis (1 — 1} pedali) gracilentis pubescentibus tarde glabris ; vaginis 

 striatulis pilosiusculis ; ligulis membranaceis tarde tissis ; foliis planis 3 — 4- 

 policaribus, 1 lin. latis parce pubescentibus ; panicula terminali gracilente 

 patente (3 — 4 policari) interrupta ; radiis solitariis aut 2-nis angulatis dis- 

 tantibus scabriusculis inaequalibus ; spiculis ovatis 2 — 4-floris breviter pedi- 

 cellatis ; glumis inaequalibus acuminatis lineari-lanceolaiis flosculo brevioribus 

 1862.] 



7 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



inferiore | — § breviore : valvulis infra glabris supra scabris inferiore breviter 

 aristata; aristis 1 — 2 lin. longis. 



Northern Texas. May. 



Grows in tufts ; internodes of the rachis i — 11 inches long, longest ray at 

 the base of the panicle about IJ inches long ; short rays 4 — 6 lines in length. 



Festuca reflex a, s. n. — Culmo geniculate glabro tereti 1 — 1.} pedali; 

 vaginis parce pubescentibus marginibus breviter ciliatis ; ligula brevissima 

 XQembranacea truncata ; foliis glabris tarde convolutis 2 — 4-policaribus 

 1 — 2 lin. latis ; panicula terminale patente pauci-radiata ; radiis solitariis 

 parum ciliatis ; spiculis 3 — 4-floris breviter pedicellatis tarde reflexis ; glumis 

 insequalibus flosculo h brevioribiis superiore 3-nervia subobtusa marginibus 

 albo-hyalinis ; valvulis glabris inferiore aristata, aristis 3 — 4 lin. 



Upper California. Nuttall. 



Panicle 3— 4 inches long; rays about an inch in length, somewhat rigid, 

 having 1 — 2 branches. Spikelets about as long as the bristles and 3 — 4 lines 

 distant. 



Festuca p u s i 1 1 a, s. n. — Culmo decumbente geniculato tereti ad basin 

 glabro supra pubescenti (10 — 12-policari) ; vaginis glabris aut parce pubes- 

 centibus ; ligulis membranaceis ovatis subintegris ; foliis convolutis glabris 

 3 — 4-policaribus 1 lin. latis ; panicula terminali coarctata 2 — 3-policari 

 longis circum 6 lin, lata ; rachi. pubescentibus subangulatis ; radiis 2— 3-nis 

 scabris angulatis dense spicatis ; spiculis 6 — 8-floris ; glumis inseqiialibus 

 superiore 3-nervia acuminata flosculis i breviore ; valvulis scabris, inferiore 

 aristata. 



Upper California. Nuttall. 



Bristles 3 — 4 lines long, being a little longer than the lower valve ; rays 

 nearly an inch in length and densely spiked ; internodes of the rachis ^ — 1 

 inch long. 



Bromus breviaristatus, s. n. — Culmo erecto piloso simplici 1^ — 2 pe- 

 dali ; vaginis villosis internodio brevioribus ; foliis plauis pilosis 5 — 6 policari- 

 bus 2— 3 ped. latis ; ligiila breve membranacea Integra vel fissa ; panicula strieta 

 circum 6 policari, et 6 lin. lata ; radiis geminis vel solitariis scabris erectis 

 1 — 2 spicatis ; spiculis 2 — 3-floris oblongo-ovatis ; glumis insequalibus ovatis 

 acuminatis obscure nervatis ; valvula inferiore obscure 7 — 9 nervata pilosa 

 apice integra aristata 2 — 3 lin. Ion. Ceratochloa breviaristata ? Hook. 



Rocky Mountains. Nuttall. 



Whole plant pilose, with short white erect hairs ; panicle of few spikes ; in- 

 tervals on the rachis between the branches 1 — 2 inches long ; longest ray 

 about an inch in length, erect and 1 — 2 spiked, of which the lowest is near 

 the base ; short ray 2—3 lin. long and 1 -spiked ; spikes about ^ an inch long. 



Bromus virens, s. n. — Culmo erecto aut decumbente glabro (1^ — 2 pe- 

 dali) subgeniculato ; vaginis internodium requantibus vel superantibus fauci- 

 bus marginibusque superioribus villosis ; ligulis 1 — 2 lin. Ion. laciniatis ; 

 foliis planis glabris 6 — 8 policaribus, 2 — 3 lin. latis ; panicula patente 3 — 4 

 policari, circum 1 ped. lata ; radiis 2 — 3 nis vel solitariis a basi floriferis aut 

 breviter nudis scabris ; spiculis laxis 5 — 7-floris circum policaribus ; glumis 

 inseqiialibus ovato-lanceolatis acuminatis scabris, superiore 5 — 7-nervia, infe- 

 riore 3-nervia ; valvula inferiore 7 — 9-nervia scabra margine et apice albo- 

 hyalina; apice subintegra aristata ; setis 4 — 5 lin. Ion. 



Rocky Mountains and Columbia River. Nuttall. 



Branches of the panicle unequal, the longest 2 — 3 inches in length and 

 erect, 2 — 2 spiked, near its top spikes on short pedicels ; short branches 3 

 lines to 1 inch long and 1 — 2 spiked. 



Bromus s e t a c eu s, s. n. — Culmo erecto 2 — 3 pedali ; vaginis inferioribus 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



glabris, superioribus marginibus et faucibus parce villosis ; ligulis 2 — 3 liu. 

 lou. apice laciniatis ; foliis glanis pubescentibus margine ciliatis 4 — G policari- 

 bus 3 — 4 lin. latis ; panicula diffusa composita 6 — 8 policari 4 — 5 polic. latis ; 

 radiis 5 — 7-nis basi nudis hirsutis ad apicem compositis ; ramulis 3 — 4 nis, 

 uaispicatis ; spiculis 4 — 5-floris oblongo-obovatis ; glumis parum inaequalibns 

 carinatis lineari-lanceolatis ciliatis acuminatis, marginibus apicibusque albo- 

 hyalinis, superiore 3 — 5-nervia ; valvula inferiore lauceolata 5 — 7-nervia ciliata 

 apice bifida et aristata ; seta 6 lin. Ion. 



Northern Texas. 



The longest of the lower branches of the panicle 3 — i inches in length, and 

 the shorter branches 1 — 2 inches long, all destitute of spikes excepting near 

 their tops ; spikes loosely flowered ; internodes on the rachis 1 — 2 inches long ; 

 pedicels 4 — 6 lines in length ; spikes without the bristle about ^ an inch long, 

 loosely flowered ; upper florets abortive, 2 — 3 united, appearing to the naked 

 eye like one with 2 — 3 bristles. 



Uniola (Brizopymm) f lexu o s a, s. n. — Culmis erectis gracilentibus glab- 

 ris 1^ — 2 pedalibus ; vaginis glabris internodio brevioribus ore parum pilosis 

 vel nudis ; ligula nulla ; foliis planis glabris 4 — 6 policaribus et 1 — 3 lin. latis ; 

 panicula terminali conferta 2 — 3 policari, 6 — 10 lin. latis, 15—20 spicatis ; 

 spiculis 10 — 12-floris oblongo-ovatis acutis 6 —8 lin. Ion. et 2 — 3 lin. latis ; 

 glumis insequalibus ovatis obscure 3-ner7iis seu glabris acutis ; valvula infe- 

 riore obscure nervata glabra subacuta ; superiore bicarinata apice obtusa aut 

 truncata. 



On the Brazos at Fort Belknap. 



Culms weak, smaller at the base than above ; leaves of the stem 2—2^ 

 inches distant, not rigid ; roots fibrous and small. 



Elymus interruptus, s. n. — Culmo tereti simplici glabro erecto 2 — 3 

 pedali ; vaginis glabris marginibus breviter ciliatis ; ligula brevissima mem- 

 branacea laciniata ; foliis planis scabriusculis 6 — 8 policaribus, 3 — 4 lin. latis ; 

 spica pauciflora interrupta 3 — 5-policari ; spiculis geminatis 3 — 4-floris laxis ; 

 glumis setaceis flosculum superantibus ; valvula inferiore 5-nervia glabra in 

 aristam terminata ; arista arcuata scabra valvula duplo longiore ; valvula su- 

 periore integerima, apice et margine breviter ciliata. 



Llano County, Texas. Internodes on the rachis about ^ an inch long ; flo- 

 rets about the same length ; bristles of the palea an inch in length, those of 

 the glume nearly eight lines long ; rachis angular or compressed, smooth, or 

 a little scabrous on the margins. 



Elymus triticoides, s. n. — Culmo geniculato glabro (1 — 2 pedali) ; va- 

 ginis glabris vel parum pilosis ; ligula brevissima laciniata ; foliis convolutis 

 aut planis (2—3 policari) pubescentibus ; spica stricta IJ — 2 policari ; spicu- 

 lis solitariis aut geminis 2-— 3 floris racheos internodium superantibus ; glumis 

 subulatis marginibus scabris vel brevissime setosis ; valvula inferiore enervia 

 seu obscure 5-nervia glabra apice breviter aristata ; valvula superiore sub- 

 JEquali obtusa apice et margine pubescente obscure 2-nervia. 



Rocky Mountains. Nuttall. 



Rachis slightly rough ; bristles of the palea 2—3 lines long ; glumes shorter 

 thau the valves. 



Elymus g 1 a u c u s, s. n. — Culmo basi glabro ad apicem parum scabro 1 — 2 

 pedali ; vaginis parce scabris internodium superantibus ; ligula membranacea 

 truncata parum fissa ; foliis planis glabriusculis 4 — 8 policaribus 2 — 3 lin. 

 lat. ; spica 2 — 3 policar. 3 — 4 lin. lat. ; spiculis 2 — 3-floris adpressis ; glumis 

 flosculis parum brevioribus aut sequautibus 3 — 5-nervis lineari-lanceolatis 

 subulatis ; valvula inferiore convoluta glabra obscure nervata vel enervia 

 apice pubescente ; setis scabris valvula 2— 3-plo longioribus. 



Columbia river. Nuttall. 



1862.] 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Its spikes are more slender than the other North American speciea. Rachis 

 somewhat scabrous, and its internodes 2 — 3 lines long. 



Trisetum g 1 a b r u m, s. n. — Radice fibrosa ; culmo glabro erecto genicnlato 

 8 — 10 policari ; vaginis glabris ; ligula membranacea elongata fissa ; foliis 

 planis glabris 2 — 3 policaribus 1 lin. latis ; panicula elongata patente ; radiis 

 2-nis glabris basi nudis compositis filiformibus, spiculis 2-flori3 pedicellatis ; 

 glumis sequalibtis lanceolatis acuminatis S-nerviis glabris flosculos snperanti- 

 bus ; valvnlis glabris hyalinis ovatis subtruncatis apice S-dentatis infra me- 

 diam aristatis ; arista geniculata flosculo duplo longiore. 



Texas. Dr. Linsecum. 



Glumes longer than the two paleaceous florets, which are vertical, the upper 

 having a long sericeus stipe. 



Trisetum interruptum, s. n. — Culmo geniculate pubescente erecto basi 

 ramoso S — 12 policari ; radiis 3-nis sen solitariis scabris compositis basi ad 

 apicem densifloris ; spiculis 1 — 2 floris sessilibus vel breviter pedicellatis ; 

 glumis scabris 7-nervatis acuminatis sequalibus valvulam subaequantibns 

 marginibus et apicibus albo-hyalinis ; valvulis glabris acutis paulo infra apicem 

 longe aristatis, inferiore bifida basi parce setulosa. 



Middle Texas. 



The lower flowering branches are partlv included in the sheaths, and are 

 at intervals of from 1 — 2 inches from near the base of the culm to its summit, 

 forming a vertical succession of little panicles, which are from 1 — 1^ inches 

 long, densely flowered. 



Trisetum canescens, s. n. — Radice fibrosa ; culmo erecto (3 — 4-pedali) 

 parce piloso ; vaginis inferioribus canescenti villosis, superioribus glabrinscu- 

 lis ; ligulis membrauaceis (1 — 2 lin. Ion.) ; foliis planis paulo pilosis ; 4 — 6 

 policaribus, 3 — 4 lin. latis ; panicula elongata stricta patente 8—10 policari ; 

 radiis 5 — 7-nis scabris insequalibus compositis ; spiculis 2-floris pedicellatis ; 

 pedicellis scabris ; glumis injequalibus carinalis acutis dorsis scabris, supe- 

 riore duplo latiore ; valvula inferiore glabra paulo infra apicem longe setulosa 

 apice bifida callo dense piloso. 



Oregon, Columbia Plains. Nuttall. 



Internodes of the panicle 1 — 2^ inches long ; rachis terete and slightly sca- 

 brous ; branches of the panicle filiform and erect, the longest about 3 inches 

 in length ; margins of the glumes white and hyaline ; bristles of the palea 

 4 — 6 lines long : florets about 3 lines in length. 



Hierochloa occidentalis, s. n. — Culmo glabro erecto 1^ — 2 pedali sim- 

 plici ; vaginis glabris internodio brevioribus ; ligula membranacea apice fissa ; 

 foliis planis glabris 2 — 3 policaribus et circum 2 lin. latis ; panicula patente 2 — 

 3 policari ; radiis solitariis compositis glabris basi nudis ; pedicellis 1 — 2-spi- 

 catis ; glumis ovatis acutis hyalinis 5 — 7 nerviis lateralibus et apicibus albidis, 

 cseteris ferrugineis flosculos fere sequantibus ; flosoulis masculis Isevibus mu- 

 ticis parce ciliatis ; hermaphroditis glabris apice breviter ciliatis. 



Columbia woods. Nuttall. 



Lower branches of the panicle about 2 inches long, with lower half naked ; 

 internodes between the branches 6 — 15 lines long. 



Note No. 2.— On ftUERCUS HETEROPHYLLA, Mich. 



BY S. B. BUCKLEY. 



Since the first note was written, I have seen a young tree on the grounds of 

 Joshua Hoopes at West Chester, near Philadelphia, which grew from an acorn 

 obtained from a tree now living at Marshallton a few miles from West Chester. 

 The Marshall tree is a seedling from the original Bartram Oak. The Bartrams 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



wishing to continue the species, which was founded on a single tree, caused 

 acorns from it to be planted in different places, from which two livino; trees are 

 now known ; one at the Bartram garden mentioned in a former paper, and the 

 other in the old Marshall garden. 



The Hoopes tree is about 15 feet high and 2—3 inches in diameter, and its 

 leaves have a striking resemblance to Michaux's figure of the Dartram Oak. 

 This may be caused in part from a tendency in many young oak trees to have 

 lobed leaves, often quite different from those of mature trees of the same 

 species. This is well known to many observers. Mr. T. Meehan, of German- 

 town, has specimens similar to Q. heterophylla, fromTownsend, in New Castle 

 County, Delaware, collected from the young shoots growing around a stump, 

 surrounded by living willow oaks, of which it had every appearance of having 

 been one. 



The following is an extract from a letter lately received from Mr. Hoopes : 



"There is a Bartram Oak in the garden at Marshallton, with foliage corres- 

 ponding to the figure in Michaux, yielding acorns, which produce trees having 

 foliage true to the original." 



Dr. Darlington lately told me what amounts to the same as that just quoted 

 from Mr. Hoopes. Should these trees maintain their present distinctive cha- 

 racters, and continue to produce trees of the same sort, it will be an example 

 of the formation of a new species from a form of an old one ; nor is it by any 

 means improbable that the Bartram Oak may become distinct from its parent, 

 the willow oak. It is believed by some botanists that new species have been 

 formed, and are now being made from varieties of old species ; but human life 

 is so short that we cannot perceive the long gradual changes necessary for 

 this creative process. These Bartram Oaks should be carefully preserved and 

 propagated, that future generations may see whether a good species of Quercus 

 heterophylla has been thus created. 



It is singular that acorns from the original Bartram Oak should yield trees 

 of such different foliage as the one at the old Bartram garden, and that at 

 Marshallton. The oak in the Bartram place shows a tendency to breed back 

 to the original stock of the willow oak, while the one at Marshallton seems to 

 keep most of the characters of its Immediate parent, the Bartram Oak. In 

 confimation of this I have just received the following note from Mr. Meehan 

 in reference to some Bartram Oaks now being raised by Mr. Buist. 



"Mr. Buist says his seedlings from the Bartram Oak all approach the 

 willow oak, but none quite like, all having a few lobed leaves. His seed was 

 gathered by himself from the tree in the Bartram garden which I pointed out 

 to you. T. Meehax." 



These seedlings as they acquire age will probably be much more like the 

 willow oak than at present, young trees often having foliage different from 

 mature trees, as before stated. 



March ith. 

 The President, Mr. Lea, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-eight members present. 

 The following papers were presented for publication : 



Synopsis of the Cirrhitoids ; On the limits and arrangement of the 

 Scomberoids ; Descriptions of new species of Alepidosauridse ; and on a 

 new species of Priacanthus. By Theodore Gill. 



On a tropical Isopod found near the shores of Massachusetts, by Wm. 

 Stimpson, 



1862.] 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Mr. Norris remarked that Dr. Hayes' Arctic collection contained a 

 specimen of the common brook trout, {Salmo fontinnlis,) taken near God- 

 haven, Greenland ; and specimens of the salmon trout, (Salmo trutta,) 

 common to the coasts of Scotland and new Brunswick, and the Gulf of 

 St. Lawrence. 



3Iarch llth. 

 The President, Mr. Lea, in the Chair. 



Thirty two members present. 



Mr. Warner made some remarks on the imitation of the section of 

 eggs by mathematical lines. 



Dr. Corse exhibited, under the microscope, specimens of Nitella, 

 showing the circulation within the nucule. 



Dr. Carson exhibited specimens of metallic copper, deposited by vol- 

 taic action in the felt of the sunken frigates at Sevastopol. 



3Iarch IS th. 



The President, Mr. Lea, in the Chair. 



Twenty-nine members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



Oa the West African genus Hemichromus, etc., by Theo. Gill. 



Cataloo'ue of the Fishes of Lower Califoroia, etc., by Theo. Gill. 



On some new and little known American Anura, by E. D. Cope. 



3[arch 2bth. 



The President, Mr. Lea, in the Chair. 



Twenty-nine members present. 



Oh report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published in the Proceedings : 



Synopsis of the Family of CIERHITOIDS. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



Family CIRRHITOID.^ Gray. 



Synonymy. 



Percoidei pt. ( ^^^^. j^j^jj ^^^ 



Sciaenoidei pt. ^ . , „ . . ^ „ 



Cirrhitidffi Gray, Synopsis of the contents of the British Museum. 



" Richardson. 



Theraponidaept.|^.^^^^^^^„_ 

 Poiynemidte pt. ) 

 Girrhiloidui Bleeker, Acta Societatis Scientiarum Indo-NederlandicK, vol. u., 



Vischsoorten von Amboina. 

 Girrhitidffi Gunther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c., vol. ii., 



p. 10. 

 Sparidffi (Haplodactylina) Gunther, op. cit., vol. i., p. 434. 



The body is oblong and compressed, with the dorsal and abdominal outlines 



QMarch, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



vineqaally arched. Scales cycloid and of moderate or rather large size. 

 Lateral line simple, concurrent with the back. Head compressed, and of mode- 

 rate or rather small size. Forehead nparly flat, or little convex tracsversely. 

 Eyes submediaii. Nostrils double, moderately approximated to each other. 

 Suborbital bones not crossing the cheek nor articulated with the preoperculum. 

 Preorbital bone moderate, or rather large. Preopercular, opercular, suboper- 

 cular and interopercular bones normally developed. Mouth moderate, clett on 

 the sides. Intermaxillary bones with the ascending processes variable in de- 

 velopment. Ma.xillary bones expanded towards their ends and behind the 

 intermaxillaries at the ends. Teeth variable in form and position. Branchi- 

 ostegal membrane generally extended more or less behind under the throat, 

 and free. Branchiostegal rays normally six, rarely five and exceptionally three. 

 Dorsal fin extending along the entire back, and with the spinous portion nearly 

 aa much or more developed than the soft. Anal fin commencing nearly under 

 the first soft dorsal rays, and short or little oblong ; spinous ray three. Caudal 

 fin entire, or emarginated. Pectoral fins normally inserted on the sides, with 

 the inferior rays well developed, simply articulated and not branched. Ventral 

 fins inserted considerably behind the pectorals and with one spine and five 

 branched rays. 



The vertebral column is composed (in CirrJdtince) of the normal or nearly 



normal number of vertebrae (jg) or a moderately increased number (in Latri- 



14 . 16 . ^ 



dtnce, :^ ; in ffaplodacti/lince, said by Richardson to be jg in Dadylogargus arcti- 



dens.) The stomach is ccecal, and a few (4 to 5) pyloric appendages are 

 present. The air bladder is sometimes absent (most Cirrhiliiice and Cliironema- 

 tina;) ; or present and simple (most Haplodaciylince) ; or lobed or fringed (most 

 Latridince.') 



This family is a very distinct and perhaps a natural one, although its 

 several groups or subfamilies offer rather peculiar characters and decided vari- 

 ations. The chief characters by which those various groups are united, are 

 the position of the ventral fins very considerably behind the bases of the pectoral, 

 and the simple, thickened and produced rays of the pectoral fins ; the branchiostegal 

 membrane is also generally more ample beneath than in those forms which 

 most resemble the Cirrhitoids in external appearance. In the artificial arrange- 

 ment of Cuvier and his disciples, in which the fishes with the typical or percoid 

 form were arranged according lo the presence or absence of palatal teeth and 

 of opercular armature, the members of the present family were partly referred 

 to the Percoids and partly to the Sciaenoids, ■\\ith which they have veiy little 

 affinity. Dr. Gray appears to have been the first to propose the family which 

 Sir John Richardson was afterwards inclined to adopt, although in his essay 

 on " Ichthyology," in the Encyclopa-dia Britannica, he tas referred Cirrhiles, 

 Aplodactylus a.nd Chironemus as the first of the genera, to his family of Therapo- 

 nidse, which family certainly is, as he admits, " a rather heterogeneous assem- 

 blage of Percoids, brought together by the single character of six branchios- 

 tegals." The other genera, Cheilodactyhis and Latris, are placed by him after 

 Polynemus, and constitute with it his family of Polynemidae. 



Dr. Bleeker has adopted the family of •' Cirrhiioidei,-' and divided it into 

 three subfamilies, — Cinhitiformes, Haplodactyliformes and Cheilodactyliformes. 

 Chironemus has been once placed in the first subfamily, and again, as Threp- 

 terius of Richardson, in the third, Bleeker not having perceived their affinity 

 to each other. 



Dr. Giinther has a family of " Cirrhitid;e," which is naturally constituted, 

 but he has placed the Ilaplodactylus in a peculiar '• group'' or subfamily omono- 

 the Sparidas, to which it has apparently little true affinity. 



The Cirrhitoids, so far as known, are peculiar to the torrid and temperate 

 portions of the Pacific Ocean and its indentations. The Cirrhitina are princi- 



1862.] 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



pallr tropical, and chiefly developed in the Indian seas and tbose of the great 

 archipelapfo, from which some wander to the Pacific, Chinese and African seas, 

 and one {Cirrhitus inaculatvs) ranges to the Red Sea, where, indeed, it appears 

 to be most common. Another {Cirrldtus rivulalus Val.) is found at both the 

 Gallapagos Islands and Lower California, it having been observed at the latter 

 place b3' Mr. Xantus.* The Cliironematina are peculiar to the Australian Seas. 

 The Iluplodaclylinai and LalridincB are principally inhabitants of the Southern 

 temperate seas, and most numerous in the Chilian and Peruvian and the Aus- 

 tralasian seas. Several are also found at the Cape of Good Hope, while several 

 others are nor'hern and inhabitants of the Chinese and Japanese waters. 



The following synopsis will enable one to readily distinguish the different 

 subfamilies : 



Synopsis. 



I. Spinous portion of the dorsal longest, but with only 10 (9) 



spines. Vertebrae jg Cirrhitinae. 



II. Spinous portion of the dorsal more or less subequal to 



the soft, with 14 — 22 spines. 

 A. Teeth of jaws cowjjorMsetfand tricuspidate or lanceolate. 



Vetebrae j-jx- Haplodaclylinse. 



AA. Teeth small, conic and acute. 



B. Ventral fins (generally) rounded ; caudal subtrun- 

 cated ; dorsal deeply notched behind each 



spine Chironemalinffi. 



BB. Ventral fins angulated; caudal with extended 

 lobes ; dorsal not notched behind each sena- 



14 

 rate spine. Vertebrae 5- Latridinae. 



I ba\ie not been enabled to examine many of the species of the family, but 

 I trust that the suggestions and views enunciated in this treatise will forward 

 the classification and knowledge of the group, and prove useful to naturalists 

 if it should only direct attention to the imperfect knowledge we have of some 

 forms. Several of the species have been so described that it has not been 

 possible to positively refer them to any group. The whole family, indeed, re- 

 quires a careful revision, and the present classification will be doubtless con- 

 siderably modified. 



Subfamily CIRRHITLVE Gill. 

 Cirrhitaeformes pp., Bleekcr. 



Teeth conical and mostly small, but often with larger or canine ones inter- 

 mixed. Dorsal fin with its spinous portion longer than the soft, and with ten 

 spines, the last of which truly belongs to the second portion. Ventral fins 

 generally angulated or subangulated, the second (branched) ray being rarely 

 somewhat longest. Caudal fin truncated or emarginated. The vertebral 

 column, in all the species examined, has been found to be constituted of ten 

 abdominal and sixteen caudal vertebra. 



The Cirrhitinae as defined above form a natural group, and differ from the 

 Cirrhitaeformes of Bleeker by the exclusion of Chironcmus, which appears to 

 represent a distinct subfamily. 



•Another species not yet described is found at Cape St. Lucas. It had been unfortun- 

 ately overlooked uniil after the transmission of the above paper; it wiU be described in 

 the catalogue of the Fishes of Lower CalWornia. 



[March. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



Synopsis. 

 Spinous portion of dorsal longest, but with only 9 or 10 rays. 



Vertebra about J| CIRRHITIN.E. 



*. Head abbreviated, with the jaws not produced. 



Head decurved from the nape; operculum unarmed. 

 Origin of dorsal nearly over preopercular margin. 



Canine teeth obsolescent Amblycirrhitus. 



Origin of dorsal generally above carpus ; canine 



teeth in both jaws Cirrhitus. 



Head very obliquely incurved to the pointed snout. Oper- 

 culum with two small spines Cirrbitichlhys. 



Preorbital not higher than the eye's diameter Cirrhitichthys. 



Preorbital considerably higher than an eye's di- 

 ameter Cirrhilopsis. 



p. Head oblong and incurved to the snout: intermaxillary 



produced, and with the posterior processes toothed..Oxycirrhites. 



AMBLYCIRRHITUS Gill. 



Synonymy. 

 Cirrbites sp. Cuv. et Val. 



Rostrum convexum. Denies canini obsolescentes. Pinna dorsaUsfere supra 

 preoperculi marginem incipiens. 



Body oblong-cuneiform, highest before the ventral fins, before which it is 

 rapidly curved upwards. Scales large. Head short and elevated, higher than 

 long. Occipito-nasal outline very oblique and nearly straight ; snout slightly 

 convex. Nape gibbous. Pieoperculum finely serrated behind. Mouth little 

 oblique and of moderate size, chiefly under the eyes. Teeth pluriserial, with 

 the canine obsolete or rudimentary. Branchiostegal rays 6, 6. Dorsal fin 

 commencing at the nape above the preoperculum ; its spinous portion is convex, 

 much lower behind than the articulated, and the membrane is very profoundly 

 notched and produced into a slender lobe behind each spine. Anal fin with 

 three spines, the second of which is largest, and with six branched rays. Cau- 

 dal fin entire, with its angles acute. Pectoral fins with its undivided rays 

 slightly produced. 



Type. Ambljcirrhitus fascialus Gill. 



The Cirrhitus fasciatus of the " Histoire Naturelle des Poissons" differs from 

 the typical Cirrhiti by th* form of the body, the region of greatest height being 

 before the ventral fins and not above it, as in the latter; by the resultant more 

 anterior commencement of the dorsal fin, and the deeply-notched and lobigerous 

 membrane behind the spines of that fin, and by the absence of larger canine 

 teeth. 



Only one species of the genus is known. 



AilBLYOIRnHITUS FASCIATCS, Gill. 



Cirrhites fasciatus Cuv. et Vol., Histoire Nalurelle des Poissons, tom. iii.. 

 p. 76, pi. 47. 

 Habitat. East Indian seas, (Pondicherry.) 



CIRRHITUS (Commerson) Lac. 

 Synonymy. 

 Cirrhitus (Comm.) Lac^p^de, Histoire Naturelle des Poisons, tom. v., p. 2, 1803. 

 Rostrum convexum. Denies canini anticiin maxilla superiore 2. Pinna dorsalis 

 supra pinn<e pectoralis basin incipiens. 



Body oblong-oval, highest before or above the ventral fins, covered with 

 1862.] 




lOli PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



rather larfre scales. Head moderate, and generally longer than high. Occipito- 

 nasal profile obliquely and moderately decurved. Nape convex. Eyes moderate, 

 above the rostro-opercular line and submedian. Preoperculum more or less 

 serrated behind, rarely entire. Anterior nostrils generally with short fimbri- 

 ated tubes. Mouth oblique and of moderate size; the supramaxillary bones 

 generally end under the eyes. Teeth pluriserial, margined by an external row 

 of larger ones ; canine teeth generally present on each jaw, in the upper in 

 front, and in the lower on the sides. Front of vomer furnished with a row of 

 small teeth. Branchiostegal rays six on each side. Dorsal fin furnished with 

 ten spines and ten to twelve (rarely fourteen) rays, the former of which form 

 nearly two-thirds of its length ; the spinous portion is convex at the middle 

 and behind much lower than the soft portion ; the membrane is moderately 

 notched behind each spine. Anal fin with three strong spines, the second of 

 which is largest, and six branched rays. Caudal fin generally entire and ab- 

 ruptly truncated. Pectoral fins with the simply articulated rays moderately 

 produced. 



Type. Cirrhitns maculatus Laciplde. 



The species retained in the genus Cirrhitns as now limited, appear to have 

 the same physiognomy and to bear a strong resemblance to each other; but 

 iLe Cirrhilus maculatus, which was the only species of the genus known to its 

 founder, has a small patch of teeth on the anterior portion of each palatine 

 bone, while in all the others the teeth are confined to the front of the vomer. 

 For this reason Drs. Bleeker and Giinther have referred that species, although 

 the type of Cirrhitns, to the genus Cirrhitichthys, established by the former 

 naturalist for fishes differing from Cirrhitus by the presence of palatine teeth. 

 As the Cirrhitince with unarmed palatine bones do not appear to differ in any 

 other respect from the Cirrhitus maculatus, and as the dentigerous palatine area 

 is very small, we retain the species having the same specialized resemblance in 

 the genus. 



Cirrhitichthys is apparently an excellent genus, and is consequently retained, 

 but with quite different limits and on other grounds than those for which ii 

 has been distinguished by Bleeker and Giinther. As before mentioned, it was 

 separated by them from Cirrhitus on account of the presence of palatine teeth. 

 The most essential character appears to us to be the form of the head. 



Nine species of the genus are now known. 



Palatine bones with teeth anteriorly C. marmoratus. 



Palatine bones unarmed. 



Preoperculum denticulated. 



Dorsal IX. I. 10, 11. * 



Body not transversely banded. 7 simple pec- 

 toral rays. 

 Pectoral thickened, not extending beyond 

 the anus. 



Scales of the lateral line 40 C. alternatus.* 



Scales of lateral line 48 — 50. 



Head simply dotted with black C. Fosteri. 



Head with a margined area behind the eyes. 



Area marked by a whitish semicircular line, 

 edged with brownish ; sides above late- 

 ral line with a longitudinal whitish band..C. arcatus. 

 Area brown, bounded by yellow ; sides with 



many (16) longitudinal lines C. amblycephalus. 



C. ahernatus has five indistinct, oblique, purplebands.thefirst of which alternate below 

 the lateral line with their lower halves, while the last is continuous. But, as it has seven 

 simple pectoral rays, and is closely allied to C. tnarmoratus and C. Foi sicri, it is placed 

 between them. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



Pectoral thickened ray extending to the 

 origin of the anal ; scales of lateral 



Hue 42 C. punctatus. 



Body (red) with 6 vertical blackish bands ; 6 



simple pectoral rays C. aprinus. 



Dorsal IX. I. 13. Scales 49 C. fasciatus. 



Preoperculum entire C. rirulatus. 



1. CiRRHITCS MARMORATUS Gill. 



Labrus marmoratus Lac, Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tome iii., p. 492, pi. 5, 



fig. 3. 

 Cirrhitus maculatus Lac, op. cit., tome v., p. 3. 

 Cirrhitus maculosus Bennett, Zoological Journal, 1829, pi. 38. 

 Cirrhitichlhys maculatus Bleeker. 

 Habitat. Red Sea, Southern Asia, Indian Archipelago, Isle of France and 

 Polynesia. 



2. ClREHITUS ALTERXATUS Gill. 



Habitat. Sandwich Islands. 



3. Cirrhitus Forsteri GUnther. 



Perca tjeniata Forster. 



Grammistes Forsteri Block, Systema Ichthyologiae, Schneid. ed., p. 191. 

 Sparus pantherinus Lac, Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tome iv., p. 100. 

 Cirrhitus pantherinus Cuv. et VaL, tome iii., p. 70. 

 Serranus Tankervillae Bennett, Fishes of Ceylon, pi. 27. 

 Cirrhitus Forsteri GUnther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes. &c., 

 p. 71. 

 Habitat. Cape seas, Eastern Africa, Southern Asia and Indian Archipelago. 



4. Cirrhitus arcatcs Cuv. et Val. 



Cirrhitus arcatus Cuv. et Vol., tome iii., p. 74. 



Cirrhitus vittatus Val. in Cuv. Regne Animal, ed. ill. Poissons, pi. 39. 

 Habitat. Mauritius, Southern Asia, Indian Archipelago, and Sandwich. 

 Islands. 



5. Cirrhitus amblycephalus Bleeker. 



Cirrhitus amblycephalus Bleeker, Nataarkundig Tijdschrift voor Neder- 

 landsch Indie, vol. xii., p. 378. 

 Habitat. Sangi. 



6. Cirrhitus punctatus Cuv. et Val. 



Cirrhitus punctatus Cuv. et Vol., tome iii., p. 70. 

 Habitat. Indian Ocean. 



7. Cirrhitus aprinus Cuv. et Val. 



Cirrhitus aprinus Cuv. et Val., tome iii., p. 76. 

 Habitat. Sea of Timor. 



8. Cirrhitus fasciatus Bennett. 



Cirrhitus fasciatus Bennett, Zoological Journal, 1829, p. 39. 



Cirrhitus cinctus GUnther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, vol. 



ii., p. 73. 

 Not Cirrhitus fasciatus Cuv. ct Val. (=Amblycirrhitus fasciatus Gill.) 

 Habitat. Madagascar, Isle of France and Sandwich Islands. 



9. Cirrhitus bivulatds Val. 



Cirrhitus rivulatus VaL, Voyage de la Venus, Poissons, p. 309, pi. 3, fig. 1. 

 Habitat. Galapagos Islands and Lower California. 

 1862.] 




108 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



CIRRHITICHTHYS Bleeker. 

 Synonymy. 



Cirrhilichthys Bleeker, Xatuurkundig Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch Indie, vol. 



X., (Index.) p. 474, 1856. 

 Cirrhites sp. Temminck et Schlegel, Bleeker. 



Rostrum acutum. Dentea canini in maxilla superior! nulli ; denies palatini. 



Body oblong-ovate, highest above the ventral fins, and covered with rather 

 large scales. Head moderate, and nearly equally long and high. Nape and 

 crown convex. Occipito-nasal outline obliquely concave and incurved towards 

 the pointed snout; pectori-nasal outline curved upwards. Crown and forehead 

 scaly; suborbital bones naked. Preoperculum finely serrated behind. Sub- 

 orbital bone entire, or dentated posteriorly. Operculum armed with two minute 

 spines. Nasal cirrhi fringed. Mouth oblique and rather small ; supramaxillary 

 bones ending under or nearly under the anterior borders of the orbits. Teeth 

 pluriserial, larger in the external row ; in the lower jaw on each side are larger 

 ranine teeth. Front of vomer and palatine bones armed with a band of villi- 

 form teeth. Branchiostegal rays 6 — 6. Dorsal fin with its spinous part convex, 

 and the last ray generally longer than the penultimate. The interspinal mem- 

 brane is simply notched, or produced in penicilligerous lobes behind each spine. 

 The first articulated ray is more or less elongated. Anal fin with three spines, 

 the second of which is very stout, and six or seven branched rays. Caudal fin 

 subtruncated. 



Type. Cirrhitichtbys graphidopterus Bleeker. 



Under the name of Cirrhitichthys, Dr. Bleeker has collected together several 

 fishes which appear to have a considerable mutual resemblance, and to deci- 

 dedly differ from Cirrhitus, to which genus most of them had been previously 

 referred. Four species have been placed in the genus which appear to concur 

 in having the same physiognomy, but are distinguished from each other by 

 some very decided characteristics. Three have a nearly similar size and posi- 

 tion of the eye, which is separated about a diameter, or even less, from the end 

 of the snout. A fourth has smaller eyes, much more distant from the snout. 

 Of the first three, one has a distinctly serrated preorbital, while in the other 

 two it is entire ; the latter again are distinguished by the condition of the inter- 

 spinal portion of the dorsal fin. 



The following analytical synopsis will more readily show the relative dif- 

 ferences : 



Snout shorter than the eye ; suborbital bone scaleless. 



Preorbital serrated behind C. graphidopterus. 



Preorbital entire behind. 



Interspinal membrane penicilligerous C. oxyrbynchus. 



Interspinal membrane not penicilligerous C. oxycephalus. 



Snout longer than the eye ; suborbital bone scaly C. aureus. 



In the preceding table the categories have been arranged in the order which 

 appears to best express their value. The most distinct groups or natural sec- 

 tions seem to be those characterized by the size of the eyes and their position. 

 Many naturalists, confiding in characters which may be of very little real value, 

 although at the same time trenchant and well defined, would regard the den- 

 tated or entire posterior margin of the preorbital bones as a character of 

 greater value ; and some would doubtless even consider it as entitled to generic 

 rank. But, after a careful comparison of the descriptions of the various spe- 

 cies that have hitherto been made known, we cannot discover that there is any 

 other essential character by which Cirrhitichthys graphidopterus is distinguished 

 from C. oxyrhynchus and C. oxycephalus. There appearing, then, to be no differ- 

 ences coincident with the condition of the preorbital margin, and the physi- 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 109 



ognomy being apparently similar, one cannot be disposed to regard such a 

 character in this case as generic. 



The Cirrhitus aureus of Teraminck and Sehlegel is probably the type of a dis- 

 tinct genus. We have provisionally proposed for it the designation of Cirrhi- 

 (opsis, but having seen none of the species of Bleeker's Cirrkilichthi/s, hesitate 

 to rank it as a genus. 



The Cirrhitus maculatus of Lacepele haS' been referred to Cirrhitichthys by Dr. 

 Giinther, as well as Dr. Bleeker, on account of the presence of " a v<-ry small 

 patch of teeth anteriorly on each palatine bone." In other respects, that spe- 

 cies perfectly agrees with most of the species retained under the name of 

 Cirrhitus by those gentlemen. Its physiognomy is entirely similar to theirs, 

 and quite different from that of a typical Cirrhitichthys. We therefore retain 

 that species in the genus Cirrhitus, not regarding the extension of a few of the 

 teeth on the palatine bones as entitling it to generic distinction, and certainly 

 not to be grouped with Cirrhitichthys. The name Cirrhitichthys could in no case 

 be accepted for the Cirrhitus maculatus, as it is the type and only species placed 

 by Commerson and Lacepede in their genus; it must theref^jre always retain 

 tiiat name, and if isolated from others, they must receive a new generic appella- 

 tion, and not it. 



Subgenus Cirrhitichthys. 



1. Cirrhitichthys graphidoptercs Bleeker. 



Cirrhitichthys graphidopterus Bleeker, NatuurkundigTijdschrift voorNeder- 

 landsch Indie, 1853, p. 106. 

 Habitat. Amboyna. 



2. Cirrhitichthys oxyrhynchcs Bleeker. 



Cirrhitichthys oxyrhynchus Bleeker, Natnurkundig Tijdschrift voor Neder- 

 landsch Indie, deel xv., 1858, p. 205. 

 Ilabila. Coram. 



3. Cirrhitichthys oxycephalus Bleeker. 



Cirrhitichthys osycephalus Bleeker, Natnurkundig Tijdschrift voor Neder- 

 landsch Indie, deel viii., 1855, p. 408. 

 Habitat. Amboyna. 



Subgenus Cirrhitopsis. 



4. CiRRHITOPSIS AUREUS Gill. 



Cirrhites aureus Temm. et Sehlegel, Fauna Japonica, Pisces, i). 15, pi. 7. fig. 2. 

 Cirrhitichthys aureus Bleeker. 

 Habitat, Japan and China. 



OXYCIRRHITES Bleeker. 

 Synonymy. 

 Oxyclrrhites Bleeker, Achtste Bijdrage tot de kennis der Yischfauna Ton Am- 

 boina, p. 39; in Acta Societatis Indo-Nederlandicse, vol. ii., 1856 — 7. 



Rostrum acutissimum, productum. Dentes canini nuUi. 



Body elongated, compressed and about five times as long a? high. Scales 

 large. Head very acute, nearly twice as long as high, with the nape convex; 

 concave between the occiput and snout. Cheeks and opercular bones scaly. 

 Pieoperculum dentated, and with its angle obtusely rounded. Operculum 

 armed with a flat spine. Anterior nostrils each f>irnisbed with a divided cirrhus. 

 Mouth almost prolonged into a tube. Jaws equal; the upper produced more 

 than an eye's diameter beyond the snout, dentated on their ascending and de- 

 cending branches. Teeth pluriserial on each jaw, preceded by a row of larger 

 ones, but no canines. Front of the vomer with a semilunar band of small ones ; 

 palatine none. Branchiostegal rays 6 — 6. Dorsal fin with ten spines, the third, 

 fourth and fifth of which are longest, and the first and penultimate shortest; 

 1862.] 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



soft portion acute and elevated in front, low and rounded behind. Anal fin 

 ■with three spines, the second of which is elongated; soft portion rounded be- 

 fore and behind, and with seven or eight rays. Caudal fin emarginated and 

 with pointed lobes. Pectoral fins irregularly rhomboidal, and with none of its 

 entire rays produced. 



Type. Oxycirrhites typus Bleeker. 



This genus is almost peculiar among fishes by the extension of the intermax- 

 illary bones and the armature of their ascending branches. It also differs from 

 Cirrhitichthys and Cirrhitus by the more elongated body and head, and the form 

 of the caudal. 



A single species is known. 



Oxycirrhites typus Bleeker. 



Oxycirrhites typus Bleeker, Achtste Bijdrage tot de kennis der Vischfauna 

 von Amboine, p. 40, in Acta Societatis Indo-Nederlandicae, vol. ii. 

 Hahitat. Amboyna and Isle de France. 



Subfamily HAPLODACTYLIN^ Gunther. 



Haplodactyliformes Bleeker. 



Haplodactylina Gunther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c., vol. 

 ii., p. 434. 



Teeth compressed, trenchant and lanceolate, or tricuspidate. Dorsal fin 

 nearly equally divided into spinous and soft ; the former ^ ith fourteen to seven- 

 teen spines. Ventral fins generally with the second branched ray longest. 

 Caudal fin truncated or emarginated. 



The vertebral column is composed of an increased number of vertebrae, 

 Richardson having found sixteen abdominal and eighteen caudal ones in the 

 Dactylosarffus arclidens. Gunther, however, adopts the correctness of that 

 number. 



This subfimily is distinguished principally by the dentition ; the physiognomy 

 of its representatives is also rather peculiar. The group is divisible among 

 three genera, which may be thus distinguished. 



Teeth of jaws compressed, tricuspidate or lanceolate. 



Vertebrre^^ HAPLODACTYLIX^. 



Vomerine t'^eth present. 



Teeth in both jaws tricuspid Haplodactylus. 



Teeth in both jaws sublanceolate, or with lateral 



lobes small Dactylosargus. 



Vomerine teeth obsolete. Teeth tricuspid in jaws...Crinodus. 



HAPLODACTYLUS Cuv. et Val. 



Synonymy. 



Aplodactylus Cuv. et Val. Histoire Naturelle des Poissons, vol. viii.. p. 47G. 



1831. 

 Aplodactylus Guichenot. 



Haplodactylus Gunther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c.. vol. ii., 

 p. 434. 

 Denies tricuspidati et velutinaj in maxillis ambobis ; in maxilla superiori tricu?- 

 pidati, triseriati ; inferior! biseriati. Dentes vomerini velutini. 



Body oblong, highest above or behind the ventral fins, covered with small 

 scales. Head scarcely longer than high, with the profile behind the eyes ob- 

 liquely straight or little concave, before eyes very oblique and high. Eyes 

 high and mostly anterior. Preorhital bones higher than long. Preopercuhim 

 with an entire membranous border. 



Mouth small, transverse and terminal. Teeth villiform or cardiform in each 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



jaw, preceded in the upper by three rows of tricnspidate teeth, and in the lower 

 by two rows. The tricnspidate teeth have the cusps rounded, and the median 

 longest. Front of vomer with villif'orm teeth. Anterior dorsal fin convex, de- 

 clining in a straight line behind and with fifteen or sixteen spines, the last of 

 which are very short. Anal fin with three spines, the first two of which are 

 very short, and with seven or eight branched rays, which very rapidly diminish 

 in size. 



Type. Haplodactylu8 punctatns Cuv. et Val. 



The genus Haplodactylus, as here defined, has the same limits given to it by 

 Cuvier and Valenciennes and by Guichenot. Two species that have since been 

 referred to it by Sir John Richardson and Dr. Giinther, have been abstracted 

 from it, and are considered to be the types of as many distinct genera. The 

 diagnosis given by Dr. Giinther to Haplodactylus is indeed equivalent to ours, 

 but his Haplodactylus arctidens and H. lophodon do not correspond to his defi- 

 nition. The correctness of the elimination of these two species is confirmed 

 by their geographical distribution. The typical Haplodactyli are, as far as 

 known, peculiar to the temperate salt waters of western South America. 

 The other two species are inhabitants of the Australian seas. 



Four forms have been described as distinct, but the specific differences of all 

 of them have not yet been fully demonstrated. Dr. Giinther has united the 

 Haplodactylus punctatns and H. reyince, but, if the figure of the latter is correct, 

 it is apparently a very good species. The species appear to be distinguished 

 by the following characters ; but it will be necessary to confirm them, and they 

 must be accepted with reserve : 



Secondary color or markings dark. 



1. Body brownish gray, covered with irregular, brown 



verraiculated markings; fins thickly spotted. A. III. 8. H. vermiculatus. 



2. Body brownish red above, irregularly- dotted with black. 



A. III. 8; first three dorsal spines short and gradu- 

 ated, much shorter than the fourth? H. reginae. 



3. Body brownish above, dotted all over with blackish. A. 



III. 7 ; first four dorsal spines regularly graduated to 



the fifth H. punctatus. 



Spots or dots whitish, on a yellowish ground. A. III. 7 K. guttatos. 



1. Haplodactylus pcxctatcs Cuv. et Val.. Giinther. 



Aplodactylus punctatus Cuv. ct Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tome viii p 

 477, pi. 242. 

 Habitat. Chili. 



2. Haplodactylus regin.e Val. 



Aplodactylus regina (Vol..) Gray, Historia Fisica y politicade Chile, Zoo- 



loyia, tomo ii., p. 158, lam. 1, fig. 2. 

 Haplodactylus punctatus p«. Giinther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian 

 Fishes, vol. ii., p. 434. 

 Habitat. Chili. 



3. Haplodactylus vermiculatus Gay, Giinther. 



Aplodactylus vermiculatus Gay, Op. cit. tomo ii., p. 159, lam. 1, fig. 1. 

 Habitat. Chili (Valparaiso.) 



4. Haplodactylus guttatus Gay, Giinther. 



Aplodactylus guttatus Gay, Op. cit., tomo ii., p. 160. 

 Habitat. Chili. 



DACTYLOSARGUS Gill. 

 Synonymy. 

 Aplodactylus sp. Richardson. 

 Haplodactylus sp. Giinther. 



1862.] 




112 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Denies omnes in maxillis tricuspidati, vel lanceolati, lobis externis parvig, in 

 seriebus externis majores. Denies vomerini veliitini. 



Body oblong, highest above or behind the ventral fins, covered with small 

 scales. Head scarcely longer than high, with the profile behind the eyes ob- 

 liquely straight, or little concave, and in front very oblique. Preorbital bones 

 as high or higher than long. Eyes elevated and mostly anterior. Preoper- 

 culum with au entire membranous border. Mouth small, transverse and ter- 

 minal. Teeth in the old, narrow, thin and little cuspidate, arranged in a band on 

 each jaw ; the teeth of outer rows are largest. Front of vomer with a small 

 patch of villiforra teeth slightly extending on the palatine bones. Branchios- 

 tejial rays six on each side. Dorsal fin convex and with sixteen spines, the last 

 of which are small. Anal fin with three spines and eight branched rays. 



This genus is nearly allied to the genuine Haplodactyli, but is distinguished 

 by the trilobation of all the teeth, and not only the large ones of the external 

 rows as in Haplodacfylus. One species has been well described, and perhaps 

 another indicated. 



Dactylosargus arctidens Gill. 



Aplodactylus arctidens Richardson, Proc. Zoological Society of London, 

 1839, p. 96. 

 Habitat. Port Arthur. 



The following species is referred to the genus Dactylosargus with doubt, being 

 only known through the description of Paikinson : 



Dactylosargus meandratus Gill. 



Sciaena meandrata Parkinson MSS. 



Aplodactylus meandratus Richardson, Transactions of the Zoological So- 

 ciety, vol. iii., p. 83. 

 Habitat. New Zealand. 



CRINODUS Gill. 



Synonymy. 

 Haplodactylus sp. Gilnther. 



Dmtfs tricuspidati in maxilla superiori pluriseriati, uniseriati in inferior!. 

 Vomer inermis. 



Bodv oblong, highest above or behind the ventral fins, covered with rather 

 small scales. Head little longer than high, with the forehead flattened, and 

 the snout obtusely rounded and projecting. Eyes elevated and mostly ante- 

 rior. Preoperculum entire and with a membranous margin. Mouth narrow, 

 horizontal, and situated beneath the snout. Teeth elongated and tricuspidate, 

 with the terminal lobe largest, arranged in a band on the upper jaw, and uni- 

 serial on the lower : palate unarmed. Branchiostegal rays five on each side. 

 Dorsal fin with its spinous portion convex, and with about seventeen spines, 

 the last of which are short. Anal with three graduated spines and six branched 

 rays. 



Crinodus appears to be decidedly different from either Haplodactylus or Arcti- 

 dms the snout being more protuberant, the teeth of the lower jaw confined to 

 one row, and only five branchiostegal rays being present on each side. 



This also is represented by a single known species. 



CSINODCS LOPHODON Gill. 



Haplodactylus lophodon GUnther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, 

 &c., vol. ii., p. 435. 

 Habitat. Coast of New South Wales. 



Subfamily CHIRONENE.VIATIN.E Gill. 



Teeth acutely conical and small. Dorsal fin with its spinous portion gene- 

 rally more or less longer than the soft, and with thirteen to fifteen spines, the 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



membrane behind each of which is deeply and acutely notched. Ventral gene- 

 rally obtuse or rounded. Caudal fin truncated or subtruncated. 



Chironemus appears to be entitled to take rank as the type of a distinct group 

 of Cirrhitoids, its physiognomy being quite different from that of any other 

 division ; the characters above given are sufficient to distinguish it, and they 

 will doubtless be found to be accompanied by others of more importance when 

 the family- shall have been fully investigated. 



Chiroxemus Cuv. et Val. 



Syno7\ymif, 



Chironemus Cuv. ft Val., Histoire Naturelle des Poissons, vol. iii., p. 78. 

 Threpterius ^/c^ffrf/«or!, Proc. Zoological Society of London, 1850, p. 68; ib, 



in Annals and Magazine of Natural History, vol. vii., p. 284, 1851. 

 Chironemus Giinther. Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c., vol. ii., 

 p. 76. 



Body oblong, highest above or before the ventral fins. Scales rather large. 

 Head moderate, subconical and longer than high. Occipito-nasal profile nearly 

 straight; snout scarcely convex. Crown, forehead and cheeks naked. Oper- 

 culum, suboperculum and interoperculum scaly. Preoperculnm entire, nearly 

 vertical or slightly oblique behind and rounded at its angle; operculum with 

 two spines. Eyes anterior. Suborbital bones narrow. Anterior nostrils with 

 a membranous appendage. Mouth oblique, moderate. Supramaxillary bones 

 ending near the vertical of the anterior borders of the orbits. Teeth generally 

 villiform, in a band on each jaw and on the front of the vomer. Branchios- 

 tegal rays 6, 6. Dorsal fin commencing above or little before the bases of the 

 pectorals, with its spinous portion longer than the soft, convex and with four- 

 teen or fifteen spines, the penultimate of which is lower than the soft portion ; 

 its membrane is deeply notched behind each spine. Anal fin short, with three 

 spines and six or seven branched rays. Caudal fin entire or convex. Pectoral 

 fins with its inferior simple rays produced, and the intervening membrane 

 deeply notched. 



Type. Chironemus georgianus Cuv. et Val. 



With Dr. Giinther, we have, for the present, retained the Threpterius maculo- 

 sus of Sir John Richardson and the Chironeimis marmoraius of the former 

 gentleman in this genus to which both have been referred. It is quite probable, 

 however, that the genus may be hereafter found not to be homogenous, and 

 that Threpterius may be re-established, but with quite different characters from 

 those assigned to it by its founder, who named it from a misconception of its 

 true relntions, and did not perceive its affinity to the Cuvieran Chironemi. 



The principal distinctive characters of the three specie^ combined under this 

 generic designation are as follows : 



Second simple pectoral ray produced to the anal ; soft dorsal 



half as long as spinous C. georgianus. 



None of the pectoral rays much produced beyond others. 



Teeth of jaws nearly uniserial ; soft dorsal two thirds 



as long as spinous C. maculosus. 



Teeth of jaws villiform, in a broad band ; soft dorsal 



rather shorter than spinous C. marmoratus. 



Not having been able to examine any of the species of the genus, we are not 

 prepared to state what may be the value of those characters, or whether they 

 are entitled to be regarded as more than specific. The type of the genus is 

 very imperfectly known, having been only described by Cuvier and Valenci- 

 ennes from a much injured specimen. 



The three species are confined to the Australian seas. 



1862.] 8 




114 PROCEEPINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



1. CniRONEMTS GEORGIANUS, Cuv. et Val. 



Chironemus georgianus Cuv.et Val. Hist. Nat. de Poissons, tome iii.. p. 78. 

 Habitat. King George's Sound. 



2. Chironemus maculoscs, Giiather. 



Threpterius raaculosus Richardson, Proc. Zoological Society, 1850, p. TO. 

 pi. 2, figs. 1, 2, 

 Habitat. King George's Sound. 



3. Chironemus maumoratus, Giinther. 



Chironemus marmoratus Giinther, Catalogue of Acanthopterygian Fishes, 

 vol. ii., p. 76. 

 Habitat. Western coast of Australia. 



Subfamily LATRIDIN^ Gill. 



Teeth acutely conical and generally small. Dorsal fin with its fpinous and 

 soft portions subequal or one not much longer than the other ; the spinous por- 

 tion has from fifteen to twenty-three spines, behind which the membrane is 

 notched. Ventral fins generally acutely angulated, the first branched ray be- 

 ing the longest. Caudal fin with the angles more or less obliquely produced 

 and acute or rounded. The vertebral column is composed of a moderately in- 

 creased number of vertebrae, all those examined having fourteen abdominal 

 and twenty caudal. 



This subfamily appears to be a very natural one, all the species having the 

 game general physiognomy, and equally differing from the representatives of 

 the other groups of Cirrhitoids. The genera are rather numerous; their prin- 

 cipal distinctive characters are given in tbe following synopsis. Several species 

 have been retained provisionally in genera to which they apparently do not 

 belong, — the description? alone of their several describers not being sufficiently 

 characteristic to enable one to positively allocate them. 

 Ventral fins angulatfd, the first branched ray being longest; 

 caudal with its lobf s produced ; dorsal not acutely 

 notched behind each spine LATRIDTN./E. 



I. Branch iostegal rays 5 or 6 Latrides. 



A. Anal fin nearly coterminal with dorsal, and with 

 more than 30 rays. 



Vomerine teeth Latris. 



Vomerine teeth obsolete Latridopsis. 



AA. Anal fin with 30 branched rays or Jess. 



B. Teeth only in the up[)er jaw Mendosoma. 



BB. Teeth in both jaws. 



C. Spinous dorsal convex or arcfaed. 

 D. Branchiostegal rays VI. 



1. Head high and much decurved. Anal 



oblong and nearly uniformly high..Dactylopagrus. 



2. Head conic. Anal oblong. Dorsal 



and anal spines robust Acantholatris. 



3. Head conic. Anal short, produced 



at its anterior angle, and when ex- 

 panded with the raj ed margin ver- 

 tically truncated or eniarginated...Chirodactjlus. 

 DD. Branchiostegal rays V. Scales small 



(L. 1. 75.) Chilodactylus. 



CC. Spinous dorsal elevated in front, preceded 

 by three graduated spines and obliquely 

 incurved behind Goniistiiis. 



II. Branchiostegal rays III Nkmatodactyli. 



Teeth of jaws uniserial Nematodactylus. 



[Marcb, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



Latridopsis Gill. 



Synonymy. 

 Latris Richanhon. 

 Cheilodactylus sp. Richardson. 



Pinna analis dorsali coterminalis, radlis 30 plusve. Palatum edentutum. 



Body subfusiform, highest above the ventral fins; caudal peduncle slender. 

 Siales of moderate size. Head compressed, short and conical in profile, with 

 the occipito-nasal outline straight. Eyes moderate, above the rostro-opercular 

 line, submedian and remote from the snout. Scales on the head above and 

 laterally. Preoperculum vertical behind. Mouth small. Teeth only the jaws, 

 where they are small and pluriserial in front. Branchiostegal rays 6—6. Dorsal 

 fin nearly equally divided ; the anterior portion convex and with about seven- 

 teen spines, the last of which are very low. Anal fin long, with three small 

 spines and about thirty or more rays, coterrainal with the soft dorsal. Pectoral 

 fins rounded and with its simple rays not produced. 



Type. Latridopsis ciliaris Gill. 



Syn. Latris ciliaris Richardson. 



The present genus and Latris are pre-eminently distinguished from all the 

 other members of this family by the many-rayed anal fin, which, is quite long 

 and coterminal with the dorsal fin. The physiognomy is also quite dissimilar 

 to that of other Latridinas, and would itself sufficiently distinguish them. The 

 only difference from Latris appears to be the absence of teeth on the front of 

 the vomer. As this is unaccompanied by any other modification of importance, 

 it may be urged that, as in the case of Cirrhitus, the two might be combined. 

 The absolute presence or absence of teeth on the palate appears, however, to 

 be of greater value than the slight extension of a patch on neighboring bones, 

 and we have therefore considered the absence of the vomerine teeth as a cha- 

 racter which generically distinguishes the Latris ciliaris from the type of that 

 genus. The dentition of the present genera does not appear to have any analo- 

 gy to that of the Theraponoids, where the presence or absence of palatine teeth 

 appears to be dependent on age, the teeth being deciduous. 

 Latridopsis ciliakis Gill. 



Anthias ciliaris Block, Systema Ichthjologiae, S«hneid. ed., p. 310. 

 Scizena ciliaris Forster, 

 Latris ciliaris Richardson. 



Habitat. New Zealand. 



Latbis Richardson. 

 Synonymy. 



Latris Richardson. Transactions of the Zoological Societv of London, vol. iii., 



p. 106. 

 Chilodactylus Richardson. 



Pinna analis dorsali coterminalis, radii 25 plusve. Denies vomerini. 



Body subfusiform, highest at the ventral fins. Scales of moderate size. Head 

 compressed, short and conical laterally, with the occipito-nasal profile nearly 

 straight. Eyes moderate, above the rostro-opercular line, subiuedian and re- 

 mote from the snout. Scales on the superior surface and the sides. Pre- 

 operculum vertical behind. Mouth small. Teeth present on the jaws and front 

 of vomer ; pluriserial at the symphisis. Branchiostegal rays G — 6. Dorsal fin 

 nearly equally divided into spinous and articulated ; the former is convex and 

 has about seventeen spines, the last of which become very low. Anal fin long 

 and coterminal with articulatea portion of the dorsal, provided with three small 

 spines and thirty or more rays. Pectoral fin with none of its simply articu- 

 lated rays produced. 



One species of this genus is known ; its relations are discussed in the remark' 

 on Latridopsis. 



1862.] 




116 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Latris hecateia Rich. 



Latris hecateia Rich.^ Proc. Zoological Society of London 1839, p. 98 ; 



Trans. Zool. Soc, vol. iii. p. 106, pi. 6, fig. 1. 

 Cheilodactylus hecateius Rich , Proc. Zool. Soc. 1850, p. 67. 

 Habitat. Van Dieraen's Land, 



Mendosoma Gay. 



Syno7iyxQy . 



Mendosoma Gay, Historia Fisica y Politica de Chili, Zooloyia. tomo ii., p. 212, 



18-18. 

 Mendosoma Giinther, Catalogno of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c., vol. ii., 

 p. 83. 



Denies maxilla superiori solam. 



Body fusiform, highest above or behind the ventral fins, with a slender 

 caudal peduncle. Scales of moderate size. Head rather small, much com- 

 pressed, acutely conical in profile, slightly depressed above the eyes. Eyes 

 large ; pupil intersected by the rostro-opercular line. Scales covering the 

 head on the sides and above. Preoperculum angulated, with posterior mar- 

 gin vertical. Mouth moderate ; jaws subequal. Teeth small and pluriserial, 

 present only on the upper jaw. Branchiostegal rays six. Dorsal unequally 

 divided, the spinous being longer than the soft, convex and highest in front 

 of the middle, and sustained by about twenty-two spines ; soft portion much 

 higher than the last spines. Anal fin oblong, and little shorter than the soft 

 dorsal, with its three spines moderate and the eighteen rays gradually decreas- 

 ing. Pectoral fins rounded and with none of the rays produced. 



Type. Mendosoma lineatum Gay. 



Mendosoma is the only known representative of the Cirrhitoids in which the 

 teeth are confined to the upper jaw. The physiognomy is somewhat similar 

 to that of Chirodactylus or Goniistiiis, but from both of them it dififers espe- 

 cially by the length and nearly uniform height of the anal fin and the less 

 produced simple rays of the pectoral fins. 



Three forms have been described as so many species, but the only clear 

 characters are those relating to the colors. Whether the diflference of colora- 

 tion is not only one of degree and has not been exaggerated remains to be 

 discovered. The diagnostic phrases below inserted are extracted from Gay's 

 work. 



Mendosoma lineatum (Gay.) 



Mendosoma lineata Gay, Historia Fisica y Politica de Chile, Zoologia, 

 tomo ii., p. 212, lam. 5, fig. 2. 

 M. corpore oblongo ; dorso et lateribus virescentibus, lineis fnscis longi- 

 tudinalibus ; ventre pallide albo ; pinnis fuscis, caudali solum nigro-maculatis 

 emarginata. 



D. XXIL I. 24. A. in. 18. 

 Habitat. Coast of Chili. 



Mendosoma ciERULEscENs Gay. 



Mendosoma csemlescens Gay, op. cit., p. 215. 

 M. corpore elongate ; supra csemleo, infra cinero, ita pinnis omnibus. 

 Habitat. Coast of Chili. 



Mendosoma fernandezianum (Gay.) 



Mendosoma fernandezianus Gay, op. cit., p. 216. 

 M. corpore subovata, supra subgriseo, infra argentata ; pinnis omnibus 

 nigrescentibus ; lateribus lineis fuscis distinctis. 

 Habitat. Coast of the Island of Juan Fernandez. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



Dacttlospabus Gill. 



Synovymy. 

 Spams sp. Parkinson. 



Cheilodactylus sp. Cuv. et Vah, Richardson. 

 Chilodactylus sp. Giinther. 



Body highest and arched above the ventral fins, convex behind, and -with 

 the caudal peduncle very slender. Scales of moderate size. Head moderate, 

 with the crown arched and the profile much decurved. Eyes elevated above 

 the rostro-opercular line and nearer the nape than the snout ; preorbital bones 

 very high ; cheeks scaly. Preoperculum vertical behind, and with its angle 

 broadly rounded. Mouth moderate. Teeth villiform on each jaw, preceded 

 by a row of larger conical ones. Branchiostegal rays 6, 6. Dorsal fin with 

 its spinous and soft portions nearly equally long and high ; the former is con- 

 vex near the middle, and scarcely lower than the soft part behind, with seven- 

 teen spines. Anal fin oblong, with its three spines moderate, and its soft 

 rays subequal. Pectoral fins with one of its simply articulated rays much 

 produced. 



Type. Dactylosparus carponemus Gill. 



Syn. Cheilodactylus carponemus Cuv. et Val. 



Dactylosparus has quite a different aspect from most of the Latridinse, and, 

 as the new name indicates, has a considerable analogical resemblance to a 

 Sparoid, the head being high and much decurved from the nape. The anal 

 fin of the typical species at least has considerably more numerous rays than 

 that of most of the allied genera, and the dorsal is nearly entire. Perhaps 

 the type may be the only known species. 



Dactylosparus CAEPaxEMus Gill. 



Sparus carponemus Parkinson MSS. 



Cheilodactylus carponemus Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tome v. 

 p. 362, pi. 128. 

 D. XVII. 31. A. m, 19, P. 17. 

 Habitat. Coasts of Australia and New Zealand. 



A fish found at Van Diemen's Land was at first referred to the Clinlodac- 

 tylus carponemus of Cuv. and Val. as a variety by Sir John Richardson, but 

 was afterwards distinguished as a peculiar species, under the name of C. as- 

 persus. It is certainly very distinct, and indeed scarcely appears to be con- 

 generic with the C. carponemus, differing from it in the short anal, the much 

 stronger spines and the decided notch between the spinous and soft portions 

 of the dorsal fin as well as by the elevated preorbital bones. The Cheilodac- 

 tylus macropterus of Richardson appears to be most nearly related to his C. 

 aspersus. In the present condition of our knowledge we will not venture to 

 propose a distinct genus, but simply enumerate them in an appendix to Dacty- 

 losparus, under the names bestowed on them by Richardson. 



Chilodactylcs aspeksus Richardson. 



Cheilodactylus carponemus Richardson, Transactions of the Zoological 



Society of London, vol. iii. p. 99. 

 Not Cheilodactylus carponemus Cuv. et Val., from whom, however, the 



radial formula is copied. 

 Cheilodactylus aspersus Richardson, Proc. Zoological Society, 1S50, p. 64. 



D. XVIIL 27. A. in. 11. P. 8 I 7, Scales 55—57 j^ . (B. 6.) 

 Habitat. Van Diemen's Land. 



Chilodactylcs macropterus Richardson. 



Sciffiua macroptera Forster. 



Cichla macroptera Block, Systema Ichthyologise, Schneid. ed., p. 342. 



Cheilodactylus macropterus Richardson, Proc. Zoological Society, 1S50, 

 p. 62. 

 1862.] 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



D. XVII. 26. A. III. 14. P. 9 I 6. Scales 55 ^ Giinther. (B. 6.) 

 Habitat. Australia (Port Arthur, Port Essington) and New Zealand. 



CHILODACTYLUS (Lacepede.) 



Chilodactylas Lac^plde, Histoire Naturelle des Poissons, torn. v. p. 6. 

 Trichopterns Gronovius, Catalogue of Fish collected and described by L. T. 



Gronow, now in the British Museum, p. 162, 1854. 

 Cynsedus sp. Gronovius, Zoophylacium. 

 Pteronemns V^un der Hwren, Handbook of Zoology, vol. ii. p. 177. 



Ossa branchiostegalia 5—5. 



Body highest and arched above the ventral fins, and with a moderate 

 caudal peduncle. Scales small. Head moderate, apparently with the crown 

 arched and the profile decurved ; crown and sides of the head scaly. Pre- 

 operculnm vertical behind. Operculum with two blunt points separated by 

 an emargination. Mouth moderate. Teeth on both of the jaws villiform. 

 Branchiostegal rays five on each side. Dorsal fin with its spinous and soft 

 parts nearly equal in length ; the former has eighteen or nineteen spines, is 

 convex near the middle, and little lower behind than the soft part. Anal fin 

 short, with its three spines moderate and its soft rays rapidly diminishing in 

 length. Pectoral fins with one of the articulated rays much produced. 



Type. Chilodactylus fasciatus Lacephde. 



The genus Chilodactylus, as now characterized, is distinguished by the form 

 of the head and the presence of only five branchiostegal rays. Its scales are 

 also in the type rather smaller than those of the allied genera. There is per- 

 haps not more than one species. 



Chilodactylus fasciatus JMc^pide. 



Cynsedus sp. Gronov., Zoophylacium p. 64, No. 221, pi. x. fig. 1. 

 Cheilodactylus fasciatus Laceplde, Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tom. v. p. 6, 



pi. 1, fig. 1. 

 Tr;chopterus indicus Gronovius, Catalogue, Gray ed. p. 162. 

 Pteronemns fasciatus Vari der Hoeveii, Handbook of Zoology vol. ii. p. 177. 

 D. XVIII. 23. A. III. 11. Scales 75. 

 Hab. Cape of Good Hope. 



The following species may provisionally be retained here : it diflfers from 

 Chilodactylus fasciatus by the larger size of the scales and the brevity of the 

 simple pectoral rays. 



Chilodactylus brachydactylus Cuv. et Val. 



Cheilodactylus brachydactylus Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tome 

 V. p. 361. 



(B. V.) D. XVII.— XVni. 31. A. HI. 9. Scales 50 6 13. 



Hctb. Cape of Good Hope. 



A species discovered in King George's Sound has been described as approach- 

 ing to C. carponemus in shape, but rather more elongated in the body, and 

 with a more arched spinous dorsal, the situation of the eyes nearer the snout, 

 the abbreviated simple pectoral rags and the naked chehs. "The disk of the 

 preoperculum is broad, that of the interoperculum fully equal to it, and both 

 these bones and the cheeks are scaleless in the specimen, which has sustained 

 some damage in the head, but not apparently in these places," (Richardson.) 

 If the cheeks are really naked in a normal condition, the species is so distin- 

 guished from every other species of the group of Latrides. It doubtless does 

 not belong to the genus, but it cannot well be characterized until better 

 known. Perhaps the Cheilodactylus brachydactylus belongs to the same genus. 



Chilodactylus nigricans. 



Cheilodactylus nigricans Richardson, Proc. Zoological Society 1S50, p. 63. 

 Hab. Australia. 



[March. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



ACANTHOLATRIS Gill. 



Stinonymy. 

 Cbietodon sp. CarmichaL 

 Cheilodactylus sp. Cuv. et Val., &c. 

 Chilodactylus sp. Gunther. 



Caput conicum. Pinna analis oHonga spinis tribus robustis et radiis circa 

 duodecim paulo decrescentibns. 



Body oblong and subfusiform, highest above the ventral fins, and with the 

 eaudal peduncle slender. Scales moderate or large. Head rather small, 

 lonical and with the profile nearly straight. Eyes mostly above the rostro- 

 opercular horizon, and nearly intermediate between the snout and nape. Pre- 

 operculum subvertical behind. Mouth smalL Jaws nearly equal. Lips thick. 

 Teeth pluriserial in each jaw. Branchiostegal rays six. Dorsal fin with its 

 spinous portion rather longer than the soft, arched and with about seventeen 

 stout spines, as high or higher than the soft dorsal. Anal fin oblong, with 

 three robust spines and twelve rays which very slowly diminish in length. 

 Pectoral fin with a simple ray considerably produced. 



Type. Acantholatris monodactylus Gill . 



This genus is distinguished by the nearly uniform height of the anal, the 

 strong spines of the dorsal and anal and the conical head. It appears to be 

 most nearly allied to Chirodactyhts and Chilodactylus, but differs especially 

 from the first in the development of the anal fin and the strength of the spines, 

 and from the second by the larger scales and the presence of six branchioste- 

 gal rays. 



The only species of the genus that is well known is the one described by 

 Carmichsel in his treatise on the Fishes of Tristan d'Acunha. 



ACANTHOLATKIS MONODACTYLUS Gill. 



Chsetodon monodactylus Carmichal, Transactions of the Linnsean Society, 



vol. xii. p, 300, pi. 21. 

 Cheilodactylus Carmichaelis Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tome v. 



p. .360 ; lb. tome ix. p. 489. 

 Cheilodactylus Carmichaelis Cur. Regne Animal, ed. ill., Poissons, pi. 31, 



fig. 2. 

 Chilodactylus monodactylus Gunther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian 



Fishes, &c., vol. ii. p. 81. 

 Hab. Coast of Chili. 



CHIRODACTYLUS Gill. 



Synonymy. 

 Chilodactylus auct. 



Caput conicum. Pinna analis ad angulum anticum multo producta, spinis 

 tribus et radiis 7 — 10. 



Body highest above the ventral fins, declining quite rapidly towards the 

 slender caudal peduncle. Scales of moderate size. Head rather small, much 

 ( ompressed, presenting in profile a conical appearance, with the profile oblique 

 and nearly straight. Eyes on or just above the rostro opercular line, and 

 mostly anterior. Cheeks and crown scaly. Preoperculum extended below, 

 with the posterior margin vertical. Mouth small. Lower jaw shorter than 

 the upper. Lips well developed. Teeth on each of the jaws pluriserial in 

 front. Branchiostegal rays B — 6. Dorsal fin with its spinous and soft por- 

 tions nearly equally long. The former is convex and hij.hest near the middle, 

 and much lower behind than the soft part. Anal fin short, with its three 

 spines moderately produced at its anterior angle and rapidly diminishing be- 

 hind, so that the rayed margin is nearly vertical. Pectoral fins with one of 

 the simply articulated rays moderately produced. 



1862.] 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Type. Chirodactylus Antonii Gdl. 



This genus differs chiefly from Clulodactylus by the form of the head and 

 the presence of six branchiostegal rays. 



Chirodactylus is distinguished by the conical head, the convex outline of the 

 spinous portion of the dorsal fin and the form of the anal. Two species are 

 known of the genus ; a third, described by Dr. Gunther, is provisionally re- 

 ferred to it, which differs from the first two by the depth of the preorbital 

 bones and the consequent position of the eyes and the brevity of the third 

 anal spine. It appears to have the form of the anal characteristic of the 

 genus, the length of the second soft anal ray equalling three inches three 

 lines in a fish twenty seven inches long. The species may be thus distin- 

 guished. 



Synopsis. 

 Eye nearer the snout than the end of the operculum. 



Anal fin III. 7 C. antonii. 



Anal fin III. 10 C. variegatus. 



Eye rather nearer the end of operculum than to the snout. 



Anal fin III. 9 C. grandis. 



The typical species of the genus are inhabitants of the Chilian seas, while 

 the C. (/randis is a native of the Southern African seas. 



Chirodactylus antoxii Gill. 



Cheilodactylus antonii Cuv. et VaL, Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tome ix. p. 494. 

 Bab. Chili. 



Chirodactylus variegatus Gill. 



Cheilodactylus variegatus Cuv. et VaL, Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tome ix. 



p. 494. 

 Cheilodactylus tschudii Milll. et Troschel, Horse Ichthyologicse vol. iii. p. 25. 

 Cheilodactylus cinctus Tschudii, Fauna Peruviana. Ichthyologia, p. 15, taf. 2. 

 Hub. Chili and Peru. 



Chilodactylus gkaxdis GLinther. 

 Cheilodactylus grandis Giiuther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, 

 &.C., vol. ii. p. 79. 



GONIISTIUS Gill. 



Synonymy. 

 Chilodactylus sp. auct. 

 Pteronemus sp. Van Der Hoeven. 



Pinna dorsalis spinis primis tribus parvis, quarto elongata; postice incurvata. 



Body highest before the ventral fins, declining rapidly under the second 

 dorsal to the slender caudal peduncle ; ante dorsal region obliquely convex 

 and carinated. Scales of moderate size. Head rather small, much compressed, 

 with the profile oblique and nearly straight or slightly incurved. Old indi- 

 viduals have a pair of tubercles on the forehead and another on the snout. 

 Eves below, nearly on a line with the posterior termination of the operculum 

 or suboperculum. Cheeks and crown scaly. Preoperculum posteriorly ver- 

 tical and entire. Operculum spiniform behind and deeply emarginated above. 

 Mouth small. Lower jaw shorter and received within the upper. Lips well 

 developed and free. Teeth on each of the jaws, pluriserial in front, uniserial 

 on the sides. Branchiostegal rays six on each side. Dorsal fin with its 

 spinous and soft portions nearly equally long ; the former has about seventeen 

 spines, th»^ first three of which are very small and graduated ; the fourth is 

 longest, and the outline behind is slightly incurved towards the soft part : the 

 latter is of a nearly uniform hight, exceeding the last spinous rays. Anal fin 

 short, nearly under the middle of the soft portion of the dorsal, provided with 

 three small spines produced at its anterior angle, and with about eight or nine 



[March. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



rays, the posterior of which rapidly diminish in length, so that the rayed 

 margin is subvertical. Pectoral fins with the simply articulated inferior rays 

 moderate, and moderately elongated. 

 Type. Goniistius zonatus Gill. 



This genus is proposed for species of Oriental and Australian fishes that 

 have been referred by previous naturalists to the genus C/tilodactij/u!;, from 

 which they appear to differ sufficiently to authorize their separation. They 

 are readily distinguished from all the other Chilodactijli of Cuvier by the struc- 

 ture and outline of the dorsal fir., the size and form of the liead, and the en- 

 tire physiognomy. They agree with the Chirodactyli in the form of the anal 

 fin. 



Three species have been described, one of which has been long known and 

 is now taken as the type of the genus. The most distinctive characters of the 

 respective species are exhibited in the following analytical table : 

 Body with 7 to 10 oblique bands. 



9 



Head not banded, unicolor. Scales 60 — G. zonatus. 



16 

 Head with a nearly vertical band below the eye. Scales 

 9 



54 — G. qiiadricornis. 



17 

 Body with a blackish longitudinal band on the back ascend- 

 ing to the apex of the spinous dorsal ; bands on and 

 behind the head. Scales 63 G. gibbosus. 



1. GOXIISTIUS ZONATPS Gill. 



Clieilodactylus zonatus Cav. et VaL, Hist. Nat. des Poissons. tome v. p 363, 



pi. 129. 

 Chilodactylus zonatus GUnther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, 



&c. vol. ii. p. 82. 

 Hab. Japanese and Chinese seas. 



2. GoxiisTitTs GiBBosns Gill. 



Cheilodactylus gibbosus Richardson, Proc. of the Zoological Societv of Lon- 

 don 1850, p. 65, pi. 2, figs. 3, 4. 

 Hab. Coast of West Australia. 



3. GoxnsTius qpadricorxis Gill. 



Chilodactylus quadricornis Giinther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian 



Fishes, vol. ii. p. 83. 

 Bab. Sea of Japan. 



Group XEMATODACTYLI Gill. 

 Latkidix^ raJiis branchiostegalibus tribus ; caput plerumque nudum. 

 Branchiostegal rays three. Head mostly or entirely naked. 



XEMATODACTYLUS (Richardson.) 

 Synonymy. 

 Nemadactylus Richardson, Proceedings Zoological Society, 1839, p. 98 ; lb. 

 Transactions of the Zoological Society, vol. iii. p. 116. 

 Dentes maxillis uniseriati, parvi. 



Body robust, fusiform, highest behind the ventral fins. Scales thin and of 

 moderate size. Head rather small, with the outlines above an<l below slightly 

 curved to the snout. Eyes mostly anterior, on or scarcely above the rostro- 

 opercular line. Crown and forehead only scaly ; cheeks and opercula naked. 

 Opercular bones unarmed. Preoperculum nearly vertical behind. Teeth 

 1862.] 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Tiniserial on each jaw, Brancliiostegal rays only three on each side. Dorsal 

 fin nearly equally divided ; its spinous portion convex and with seventeen 

 spines, the last of which are lower than the second part. Anal fin oblong, 

 with three moderate spines and about fifteen gradually decreasing rays. Pec- 

 toral fins with one of its simple ra\ s produced beyond the rest. 



The genus Nematodactijlus is distinguished from all tbe other representatives 

 of the family by the presence of only three branchiostegal rays. Notwith- 

 standing this anomalous character, its resemblance to the Latridinse, and 

 especially to Chirodactylus and the allied genera, is such that scarcely a doubt 

 can be entertained as to the aflBnity of the genus to the rest of the subfamily. 

 Another characteristic feature cf the genus is the nudity of the cheeks. 



Only one species is known. 



Nematodactylus concinxcs (Rich.) 



Nemadactylus concinnus Richardson, Transactions of the Zoological 

 Society, vol. iii. p. 116, pi. 4, fig. 2. 

 Habitat. Port Arthur, Van Diemen's Land. 



Description of a new species of CIRRHITTJS. 



CiRKHITUS ALTERNATCS Gill. 



The form is similar to that of the typical species of the genus. The region 

 of greatest height is above the ventral fins, and there equals three-tenths 

 (3-10) of the total length ; thence the back is slowly decurved towards the 

 caudal peduncle ; the height behind the dorsal equals an eighth and that at 

 the lowest part of the peduncle a tenth of the length. The thickness at the 

 pectoral region is between a fifth and sixth of the length. 



The head is very obliquely decurved, and is longer than high ; it nearly 

 equals the height (29-100) to the end of the bony projection of the operculum, 

 and the membranous portion extends two fractions beyond (31-100.) The 

 distance from the snout to the nape equals 23-100 of the total length, and is 

 as great as the height at the latter region ; the height at the pupil equals 

 18-100 of the length. The interorbital region is channelled or concave. The 

 distance between the orbital ridges is less than the diameter of the eye (4^100. ) 

 The eye is moderate, the diameter being nearly a fourth of the head's length 

 (7-100 of the total), and is greater than the height of the preorbital, which 

 is about a fifth of the head's length (6-100.) The snout exceeds a third of 

 the same (11-100.) The preoperculum has a convex margin, which is deli- 

 cately serrated above the interoperculum. The preorbital is entirely concealed 

 in the integuments and entire, and equals in height the diameter of the eye. 

 The cheeks are covered with very small scales ; the preopercular border naked : 

 the operculum and suboperculum have three rows of scales, larger than those 

 of the body ; the interoperculum three in one row ; the operculum two in the 

 lower row and two smaller ones in an upper. The postnasal fringe has two 

 larger filaments and several smaller ones. 



The cleft of the mouth has a semi- elliptical contour, and is moderate, the 

 supramaxillary bones ending under the posterior border of the pupil. The 

 canine teeth are well developed, two being in the front of the upper towards 

 the sides, and six to eight in the lower in front, while on each side of the 

 lower are also two larger ones. The band of villiform teeth is quite broad in 

 each jaw. The front of the vomer only has a narrow lambdoidal band, and 

 the palatines are unarmed. 



The dorsal fin commences over the end of the bony operculum and the axilla 

 of the pectoral, or nearly with the third tenth (32-100) of the total length. The 

 spinous portion covers three- tenths (31-100) of the length, and is convex; the 

 first spine equals a twentieth (5-100) of the total length, and is less than half 

 as long as the third to the sixth inclusive, they equalling a ninth (^11-100) of 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



the same ; the ninth spine equals 7-100 of the same. The membrane is not 

 acutely notched, and is penicilligerous behind each spine. The soft portion, 

 inclusive of its spine, exceeds a fifth (21-100) of the length, is higher in front 

 than the spinous and declines little in height. 



The anal fin tommenees nearly under the first soft dorsal ray and at the 

 posterior half of the length (53-100) ; the entire base equals 13-100 of the 

 total length, and the soft portion, inclusive of its spine, an eleventh (9-100) ; 

 the latter is much higher than long, and vertical truncated behind when ex- 

 panded ; the second soft or first branched ray is nearly twice as long as the 

 base of the soft part (17-100). The membrane behind the first and second 

 spines is acutely notched ; the length of the first spine nearly equals a twelfth 

 (8-100), that of the second an eighth (12-100) of the total length, and is 

 greater than that of the third. 



The caudal fiu truncated behind and forms nearly a fifth (19-100) of the 

 length. 



The pectoral fins are well developed, but none of the rays are much elon- 

 gated, the second and third simple rays from the branched being about equal, 

 not a quarter (23-100) of the length, and not much larger than the fourth, 

 which exceeds a fifth (21-100) of the same. There are seven simple rays, the 

 membrane below each of which, except the uppermost, is very deeply and 

 acutely notched. 



The ventral fins are inserted nearly at the vertical, between the fourth and 

 fifth dorsal spines, and extend backwards to the anus, the length nearly equal- 

 ling a sixth of the total (17-100) ; the spine equals a tenth (10;!) of the same : 

 the first ray is longest and about a quarter longer than the inner. 



The branched rays of the dorsal are divided from the middle, and the pos- 

 terior branch again divided ; those of the anal are dichotomous, both branches 

 being divided, as are also those of the caudal. Those of the pectorals are 

 unequally branched, like those of the dorsal, the lower branch only being 

 divided. The central rays of the ventrals are thrice divided ; the others are 

 more or less unequally branched. 



The scales are large, there being only forty along the lateral line ; above 

 are four rows, and below ten. The obliquity is such that a row from the front 

 of the dorsal fall behind the anus. 



1 1 4 



D.IX. I.lOy. A.m. 5y. C.6.1.7. 6. 1.5. P. 1. 6 | 1. 6. V. 1.5. Scales 40^^ 



The color is grayish or light purplish, apparent on the back in five spots, the 

 first of which is below the third to fifth spine ; the second below the seventh 

 and eighth : the third below the second to fifth soft rays ; the fourth unpaired 

 and behind the dorsal, and the fifth at the base of the caudal ; below the lateral 

 line are as many more under the superior row, and these alternate below with 

 as many bands as broad as the intervals. The intervals between the spots on 

 the back, especially the last, are band-like. The spinous part of the dorsal 

 is purple, with two lighter longitudinal bands ; the soft part is also purplish 

 at the base. The rays of the caudal and anal are sometimes spotted. The 

 head is purple, and the chin is marked witli three purple spots, forming a 

 triangle. The bands are much darker on the back. 



Body — Total length from snout to caudal, 5J 100 



Greatest height 30 



Height at caudal peduncle behind 12.} 



'< " in middle 10 



Thickness of body at pectoral region 18 



Head — Length from snout to opercular angle 29 



" " opercular membrane 31 



" " nape 23 



"Width at operculum 18 



" eyes 14 



'* between orbits 4i 



1862.] 




124 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Height of preorbital 6 



Eye— Diameter 7 



Distance from snout 11 



Dorsal — Distance from snout 32 



Length to base of last spine 31 



" of soft portion 21 



Anal — Distance from snout 53 



Length.. 13 



Length of 1st spine 8 



Length of 2d spine 12 



Caudal — Length of middle ray 19 



" outermost rays 19 



Pectoral — Length of 2il and 3d simple rays 23 



" 4th simple ray 21 



Ventral — Length of 1st ray 17 



" spine IO2 



A single specimen of this species, in very fine condition, is contained in the 

 Smithsonian museum, and was obtained at Honolulu (Sandwich Islands), by 

 the Rev. W. H. Pease. It differs from the other species chiefly in color and 

 the size of the scales, resembling in the last respect the Cirrhitus maculatus. 

 It is nearly related to that species, but differs not only in color, but in tiie 

 smooth palatine bones, and would consequently be placed in a different genus 

 by Bleeker and Giinther. 



On the limits and arrangement of the Family of SCOMBROIDS. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



The family of Scombroids, as established by Cuvier, was a very heterogenous 

 group, containing many dissimilar forms which certainly cannot, in the present 

 state of our knowledge, be characterized or distinguished by any decisive 

 diagnosis, nor is one of the characters given by Cuvier himself either peculiar 

 to his family or applicable to ail its constituents. Various attempts have been 

 made to distribute the species referred to the Cuvieran family among natural 

 groups. The most recent of these, and the most valuable on account of the 

 knowledge of the authors, are those of Drs. Bleeker and Giinther. Neither of 

 those naturalists appear to have been successful in giving an entirely natural 

 arrangement of the family. Dr. Bleeker has not characterized his groups. 

 Dr. Giinther has distinguished bis by the number of vertebrae and the compara- 

 tive extent of the dorsal fins. The following arrangement is a sketch of one 

 which it is proposed to shortly publish in more detail. The family thus esta- 

 blished comprises parts of Dr. Giinther's Trichiuridse and Scomberidae, as the 

 characters given to the former are equally applicable to some of the genera of 

 the latter. 



Family SCOMBROIDS (Cuv.) 



A. Body fusiform and moderately elongated. First dorsal 

 with less than 25 spines. 

 B. Spinous dorsal abbreviated and widely separated from 



the soft. Pectorals at the horizon of the eyes Scombrin^. 



a. Teeth on the palatine arcade Scomber. 



b. No teethon the palate Auxis. 



BB. Spinous dorsal contiguous to the soft, variable. Pec- 

 torals equidistant from the back and breast, or 



nearer the latter Orycni.v.e. 



C. Tail with cutaneous keel on each side. 



[March. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



D. Dorsal spines not more than 22. 

 a. Vomer unarmed, 

 al. Dorsal and anal finlets 6. Corslet not 



scalj. First dorsal XIV Gymnosarda. 



a2. Dorsal finlets 8—9. Anal 7—9. 



Corslet with very small scales. D. XI. — 



XIII Orycnopsis. 



Corslet with larger scales. D. XVIII. — 



XXII Sarda. 



aa. Vomer and palatines dentigerous. 



b. Teeth of jaws rather small. Corslet on 

 the sides before formed by larger 

 scales. D. XII.— XV. 



Lateral line simple Orycnus. 



Lateral line double Grammatorycnus. 



bb. Teeth of jaws strong. Corslet obsolete 

 and body generally partly naked. 

 Teeth compressed, nearly equal in each 

 jaw. Dorsal and anal finlets similar, 



7—10. D. XIV.— XVI. (XX.) Cybium. 



Teeth conic, much larger in the lower. 



Dorsal and anal finlets 4 — 5. D. XII...Lepidocybium. 

 Teeth conic, subequal. Dorsal and anal 



finlets 8—9. D. XV.— XVIII Apodontis. 



DD. Dorsal spines 25, Acanthocybium. 



CC. Tail not keeled. 

 a. Ventrals I. 5. 



al. Dorsal and anal finlets developed. 



1. Lateral line present. 



Dorsal and anal finlets 6. Lateral line 

 abruptly decurved behind the last 

 spines Thyrsites. 



Dorsal finlets 5; anal 4. Lateral line 



nearly straight Thyrsitops. 



2. Lateral line obsolete. Skin with spini- 



gerous or stellate tubercles Ruvettus, 



a2. Dorsal and anal fins undivided Epinnula. 



aa. Ventrals represented chiefly by the spines. 

 Preoperculum unarmed. Dorsal and anal fin- 

 lets 2 Prometheus. 



Preoperculum spinigerous at its angle. Dorsal 



and anal finlets none Dicrotas. 



AA. Body very long, (height much less than a tenth of the 



length.) First dorsal with numerous spines Gemptlin^. 



Spinous dorsal XXX., XXXI. Ventrals minute, I. 5 Gempylus. 



The types of the respective genera are the following : 

 SCO-MBRINiE (Bon.) Sw. 



1. Scomber (i.) Scomber scombrus X.. 



2. Auxis (Cwi'.) Scomber Rochei i?mo. 



ORYCNINJE Gill. 



3. Orycnus {Cuv.) Scomber alatunga L. S. thynnus L. 



4. Grammatorycnus (Gi'W.) Thynnus bilineatus i?u/)/)eW. 



5. Gymnosarda [Gill.) Thynnus unicolor Riippell. 



1862.] 




126 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



6. Orycnopsis (Gill.) Scomber unicolor Geoffroy. 

 "i. Sarda (Cut'. 1820.) Scomber pelamjs Brilnnich. 



8. Cybium (Cwy.) Scomber commersonii Lac^phde. 



9. Lepidocybium (Gill.) Cybium flavobrunneum Smifk. 



10. Apodontis (Bennett.) Apolectus immunis Bennett. 



11. Acantbocybium (Gill.) Cybium sara Bennett. 



12. Thyrsites (Cuv.) Scomber atua Euphrasen. 



1.3. Tbrysitops (Gill.) Thyrsites lepidopoides Cuv. ct Val. 



14. Ruveltus (Cocco.) Ruvettus pretiosus Cocco. 



15. Epinnula (Poej/.) Epinnula magistralis Poejj. 



16. Prometheus (Lowe.) Gempylus prometheus Cuv. el \al. 



17. Dicrotus [Giinther.) Dicrotus armatus Giiither. 



GEMPYLIN^ Gill. 



18. Gempylus (Cuv. 1829 ) Gempylus serpens Cuv. 



Thus limited, the family Scombroidap appears to be a very natural one. The 

 Ltpituroida appear to be represented by four genera : 



1. Lepturus (Artedi.~) Triohiurus lepturus Linn. 



2. Eupleurogrammus (Gill.) Trichiurus muticus Gray. 



3. Lepidopus (Goiian.) 



4. Aphanopus (Lowe.) 



The other genera included in the family of Scombroids by Dr. Giinther may 

 be variously distributed. 



Naucrates Raf., Cubiceps Lowe, Neplomenus Gthr., Platystethus Gthr. and pos- 

 sibly Elacate Cuv., appear to belong to the family of Carangoids. 



Echeneis (L.) is the representative of a peculiar family. 



Gasteroscfiisma Rich, and Nomeus Cuv. we also believe to represent a distinct 

 family. 



Ditrema (Temm. et Schlegel) belongs to the family of Embiotocoids, as has 

 been shown by Mr. Brevoort, and is very closely allied to Embiotoca and Phane- 

 rodon furcatus. 



The group of Cyttina is equivalent to the family of Zenoidae Lowe, and is 

 well entitled to rank as such. It is divisible into two subfamilies and five 

 genera : 



ZEIN^ (Bon.) 



1. Zeus (Artedi.) Zeus faber Linn. 



2. Zenopsis (Gill.) Zeus nehulosas Temm. et Schleffel. 



3. Cyttus (Giinther.) Capros auslralis Richardson. 



4. Cyttopsis (Gill.) Zeus roseus Lowe. 



OREOSOMATINJS. 



5. Oreosoma (Cuv. et Val.) Oreosoma atlanticum Cuv. 



Zenopsvs is distinguished by the presence of osseous plates at the base of 

 the dorsal, and of three anal spines, &c. The Zeus ocellatus of Storer is a 

 member. The genus Cyttopsis has no plates at the bases of the fins, but several 

 intervene between the ventral fins and the anus, and each ventral has a spine 

 and eight branched rays. 



The Stromateina appear to be entitled to family rank as much as the Ciran- 

 goids. The genera are the following : 



1. Stromateus (Artedi.) Stromateus fiatola L. 



2. Chondroplites (G(7^'.) Stromateus atous Cuv. et Val. 



3. Stromateoides (Bleeker.) Stromateus cinereus Bloch. 



4. Apolectus {Cuv. et Val) Stromateus u\gQT Bloch. 



5. Peprilus [Cuv.) Sternoptyx Gardenii (Bloch) Schneider. 



6. ToTonotxxB (Gill.) Stromateus triacanthus PecAr. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



Nearly allied to the preceding are the Centrolophinae, with the genera Cen- 

 Irolophus Lac, Leirus Lowe and Paliniirichthys Gill, Blkr., (^=Pamnielas Gthr.) 

 Closely connected to the Centrolophinaj are the genera Schcdophilus Cocco and 

 Jdoplocorypkis Gill, (type Schedophilus maculaUis Gthr.) 



Brama and Taracles appear t ) belong to a peculiar family. 



PteracUs Gronovius and Plerocombus Fries, the latter of which has been over- 

 looked by Dr. Giinther, seem to constitute a distinct group. 



Diana Risso and Luvarus Raf. {^Ausonia Risso) probably also constitute a 

 distinct family, as well as Lamprid Retzius. Mene is more related to Equula. 



Corj/phcena is the type of a peculiar family early established. The genus 

 Lampugus is probably, as Bonaparte and Giinther have believed, identical with 

 it. Valenciennes has announced* a discovery of M. Dussumier proving that 

 the interparietiil crest of the male is much more elevated than that of the 

 female, while Dr. Giinther considers the elevation of the crest as the accom- 

 paniment of mature age. 



Several forms referred by Dr. Giinther to his family of Carangida; should be 

 also withdrawn. They are Pammelas Gthr., which is nearly allied to Centro- 

 lophus, Psettus Com., Platax Cuv. et Val., Zaiiclus Com., Capros L., Antigorda 

 Lowe, Equula Cuv. and Gazza RQppell, as well as the group Kurlina. 



Capros and Antigonia form a family already established by Mr. Lowe ; to it 

 also belongs the genus Ilgpsinoius (Temra. et Schlegel), included by Giinther 

 in the group of Chaetodontina and family of Chaetodontidae. 



Equula and Gazza represent another peculiar family (Equuloidse Blkr.); the 

 Equula longimanus of Cantor, is the type of a distinct genus {Clara Giil), dis- 

 tinguished by the composition of the fins (D. X. 15. A. IV. 13), the large 

 scales, entire preoperculum and long pectorals. 



It is, perhaps, also somewhat doubtfal whether Psenes (Cuv. et Val.) belongs 

 to the Carangoids, but it would be premature to separate them until better 

 known. The Trachinotua a«o/«a/M« of Teraminck and Schlegel referred to Psenes 

 differs by the presence of seven branchiostegal rays and of only sir dorsal 

 spines ; it may be called Psenopsis anomalus. The genus has a superficial re- 

 semblance to Crius or Palinurichthys. 



Descriptions of new species of ALEFIDOSATJBOID.S. 

 BY THEODORE GILL. 



In this paper are described two new species of the family of Alepidosauroids. 

 both of which are found in the waters of Western North America, and a third 

 from the Carribean Sea is indicated. They all belong to that subgenus or 

 genus whose members have a spine and twelve branched rays in each of the 

 ventral fins, and of which the only other known species has been very recently 

 described by M. Poey in his " Memorias Sobra la Historia Natural' de la Isla 

 de Cuba." The three species appear to agree in all other respects with AUpi- 

 dosaurus, and have the same elevated dorsal fin. 



The family of Alepidosauroidse, including the species now described, appears 

 to include seven species, but they require to be critically examined and rede- 

 scribed, as the descriptions hitherto published are not sufficiently character- 

 istic to establish their distinction. Two (Alepidosaurus ferox Lowe and A. 

 azureus Val.) are inhabitants of Madeira, while a third {A. Richardsonii Blkr.) 

 is found at New Zealand. 



The family of Alepidosauroids still appears to me to be more nearly allied 

 to the Lepturoid<e than Siluroidte, as has been urged by Mr. Lowe, with 

 whom Sir John Richardson, and perhaps Parnell alone of all the native na- 

 turalists of Britain, can well contest the palm of excellence as a scientific 



• Cuv. et Val. Hist, Nat. des Poisaons. Inme xxi. p. 8. 



1862.] 




128 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



ichthyologist. On another accasion, I will give my reasons for the retention 

 of this family near the Acanthopteri and against the supposed affinity of its 

 members to either the Salmonoids to which Valenciennes has referred them, 

 or the Siluroids, to which Giinther has lately approximated them. 



The species herein described, as well as the Alepisaurus altivel s of Poey, or 

 those Alepidosauroids, whose ventrals have each a spine and twelve branched 

 rays, may at least be placed in a separate subgenus, to which the name of 

 Caulopus may be given. The number of ventral rays appear to be constant, 

 and as there is rarely so wide an interval as that of between nine and thirteen 

 in the same natural genus, its title to such distinction or even generic rank 

 appears to be good. 



Alepidosauecs (Caulopds) borealis Gill. 



The head has the form and outlines common to the other members of the 

 tribe. The superior surface is flat and declines in a nearly uniform line to the 

 snout, and is sculptured as usual. The height at the vertical of the preoper- 

 cular margin enters nearly four times and a half (44-100) in the length ; the 

 width at the same region nearly equals a fourth (24-100) of the same ; thence 

 it regularly diminishes to the pointed snout. 



The eyes are circular and normally large, a diameter entering eighteen- 

 hundredths (IS-lOOl times in the head's length. The distance of the eye 

 from tlie snout equals two-fifths (40-100) of the length. 



The nostrils are nearer to the eyes than to the snout, and are situated at 

 the twenty-third-hundredth (23-100) of the length. The operculum is of 

 a rhomboidal form ; above it is straight, and its length exceeds a quar- 

 ter of the head's ; its longest diameter, from the centre of radiation to the 

 postero-inferior angle margin, equals three-tenths of the same ; its posterior 

 margin ia nearly vertical, or rather parallel with the preopeiculum ; the ante- 

 rior curved upwards from the inferior. Its surface has about eighteen promi- 

 nent striie or ridges, besides additional smaller ones. 



The coalescent inferior opercular bone is divided into two parts by an ele- 

 vated stria or ridge, commencing above the articulation of the lower jaw ; the 

 part above that ridge is vertically semi-hastiform, or irregularly triangular, with 

 an oblique emargiuated base or posterior side ; from its angle of radia- 

 tion above the lower jaw, about nine strise radiate ; its least diameter, from the 

 apex to the base or posterior oblique margin, equals an eleventh (9-100) of the 

 head's length ; its greatest, behind the preoperculum, exceeds twice the lat- 

 ter (19-100), while that of its posterior oblique side equals only about an 

 eighth (12-100) of the head. The inferior portion, besides the upper dividing 

 ridge, has one under it continued to the margin, and the whole surface has 

 coarse radiating strije or ridges, the upper of tvhich are interrupted behind by the 

 anterior of two or three rid(jes parallel with the posterior border. 



The lower jaw is robust, and its length is equal to three-fourths of the head's. 

 Its upper outline is slightly arched or convex. Its greatest height is under the 

 last median trenchant small teeth of the sides, where it equals an eighth of the 

 length of the head. 



The teeth of the intermaxillary bones are very small, acute and numerous, 

 and continued to the angle of the mouth. There are about three very large 

 and nearly equal vomerine teeth, which are slender and considerably curved. 

 The length of the hinder equals a seventh (15-100) of the head's length; one 

 is unpaired, while the two behind are nearly opposite. 



The large palatine teeth are shaped like the vomerine and equal in length 

 nearly a tenth of the head's ; there are in our specimen one on the left and 

 two on the right side. The succeeding small trenchant teeth commence con- 

 siderably behind, the first being scarcely before the anterior border of the • 

 orbit ; tbey are not contiguous, and rapidly increase in size, are scarcely cari- 

 nated, and the posterior border is slightly recurved. There are about six. The 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



lower jaw lias, first, in front, on each side, two small teeth, then behind a 

 larger, slender, conical and recurved one. Each species has three on the right 

 and four on the \^ii,( normally ?); thirdly, about six small, slender, nearly straiuht 

 ones ; fourthly, three large, slender, compressed and curved trenchant ones, 

 and behind ten or twelve small, trenchant ones. The large dentary teeth are 

 slender and moderately curved ; the length is four times greater than the 

 height, and nearly equals a twelfth of the head's length. The posterior small 

 trenchant teeth are separated by considerable intervals. 



The dorsal fin has about thirty-four rays, the first of which is rather stout, 

 and anteriorly has a prominent compressed ridge, crenulated in front ; the 

 distance between the first and second equals about three-fourths of that be- 

 tween the second and third. 



The ventral fins are as long as the head, and each is composed of a slender 

 spine, crenulated on its external edge, and of twelve rays divided nearly to 

 the base ; the external branches of the last are also more or less deeply divided. 



Head — Length (7^ inches) 100 



Height at preoperculum 44 



Width at preopercnlum 24 



Eye — Distance from snout 40 



Diameter of eye 18 



Nostril — Distance from snout 23 



Lower jaw — Length 75 



Greatest height 13 



Intermaxillary bones — Length of posterior processes 15 



Operculum — Length of upper margin 25 



Greatest length 30 



Height 26 



Infraoperculum— Length 29 



Length of shortest ray above the superior hori- 

 zontal ridge 10 



Teeth — Length of posterior vomerine tooth 15 



Width " •♦ " 3 



Length of large posterior dentary tooth 8 



Width " " " " 2 



This species is probably nearly allied to the Alepidosaums {Caidopus) altivelis 

 (Poey) of Cuba, but is distinguished by the length of the ventral fins, which 

 appear to be at least equal to the head, and from others by the form and 

 sculpture of the opercular pieces, as well as by the relative proportion and 

 dimensions of the other parts of the head. A single specimen was obtained 

 in Pnget's Sound, by Dr. C. B. Kennerly, the Naturali.it of the Northwestern 

 Boundary Survey, under the command of A. Campbell, Commissioner. The 

 head, dorsal, caudal and ventral tins were only preserved. The reflection will 

 naturally arise, whether the individual captured there was not a wanderer 

 from more southern waters. The discovery of a species of the family in such 

 northern waters is a discovery of no slight interest. 



A plate illustrative of the species will be published in the work on the 

 Fishes of Western North America. 



AlEPIDOSACROS (CaULOPCS) 8ERRA Gill. 



The head has the typical generic form, and constitutes about a sixth of the 

 total length. The upper surface is flat, and declines in nearly a straight line 

 to the snotit. The height at the preopercular border equals two-fifths (40-100; 

 of the length. Its width at the same place, or above the preoperculum ex- 

 ceeds a fifth (22-100) of the same, or half of the height ; thence, the width 

 regularly decreases towards the pointed snout. 



The eyes are of the usual size, the diameter entering about five and half 

 1862.] 9 




130 PROCEEmNGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



times (lS-100) in the head's length ; they are nearly central, the distance 

 from the snout exceeding the height, (two-fifths (43-100) of the length.) 



The nostrils are within the posterior half of the interval between the snout 

 and orbit. The operculum is oblong, and has a somewhat trapezoidal form ; 

 its superior margin advances obliquely upwards ; its posterior subtrnncated 

 and nearly parallel with the preoperculum ; its inferior nearly straight and 

 parallel with the upper margin for half of the length of the operculum, and 

 then curved upwards to the centre of radiation, or from the posterior inferior 

 angle to the angle of radiation, it nearly describes the segment of a circle. 

 Its length above nearly equals four-tenths (39-100), and its greatest exceeds 

 three-tenths (33-100) of the head's length ; its greatest height is less than a 

 fifth (18-100). Its radiating striae and ridges are moderately developed, most 

 distinct and distant on the median and superior surface, and finest most 

 approximated and curved beneath. There are about twenty-four, of which 

 half terminate behind. 



The coalescent inter- and subopercular bones are divided into two portions, 

 an upper and lower ; the upper is nearly equally trianr/ular, with its apex 

 above the articulation of the lower jaw, and its base Innately emarginated and 

 below the operculum ; it has from ten to fourteen radiating striae or slight 

 ridges; its least diameter, from the apex to the base, equals an eighth of the 

 head's length ; the aides nearly twice as much (23-100). The inferior por- 

 tion is defined above by a straight ridge from the centre of radiation to the 

 end, and scarcely passes beyond the operculum ; its greatest length equals 

 three-tenths of the head's ; its surface above is wrink'ed parallel with the ob- 

 lique posterior margin, and has slight radiating strice on it^ lower half. 



The form of the lower jaw and the dentition offer important characters. 

 The lower jaw forms three-quarters of the head's total length ; its superior 

 outline is nearly straight ; its height is somewhat greatest under the second 

 large tooth, but behind is subequal ; its height there equals a tenth of the 

 head's length. 



The teetli of the intermaxillary bones are of normal size, very small, acute 

 and numerous. The large vomerine teeth* are greatly developed and stout ; 

 the curve of the posterior is moderate. The length equals an eighth of the 

 head's, and is three times longer than wide. The posterior or large palatine 

 teeth behind have nearly straight posterior borders. The length nearly equals 

 a twelfth of the head's or three-fourths of the palatine. The smaller teeth 

 behind are contiguous at their bases, oblique, broad and with the posterior 

 margin nearly straight or slightly convex near the base. Each has a median 

 ridge on the surface, which is more distinct towards the tip. There are about 

 nine such teeth. 



The slender and elongated tooth of the front of each branch of the lower 

 jaw is moderately curved ; then follow about twelve slender conical ones ; 

 then three large dagger-shaped ones. Tlie latter are robust ; the posterior 

 margin is at first straight and then slightly curved forwards to the tip ; the 

 posterior tooth has a length equalling half of the binder vomerine (fr^-lOO), 

 and its width at the base 2^. 



The posterior smaller teeth are broad and contiguous at their bases ; the 

 anterior border is curved very obliquely backwards, and the posterior is 

 nearly straight. There are from thirteen to fifteen. Each one is carinated 

 along the middle. 



Of the dorsal fin, only the roots of the first few rays are not preserved, from 

 which it appears that the first must have originated nearly over the postero- 

 superior angle of the operculum ; the ventrals have been also mostly de- 

 stroyed, but enough is retained to show that there were the usual number of 

 rays, — one spinous and twelve-branched. 



* Only the two posterior one» are present in the specimen. 



QMarct, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



Head— Length (8 inches) 100 



Height at preoperculum. 40 



Width " " 22 



Eyes — Distance from snout 43 



Diameter of eye 18 



Lower jaw — Length 75 



Greatest height 10 



Intermaxillary bones — Length of posterior processes 12 



Operculum — Length of upper margin 29 



Greatest length 33 



Height 18 



lafraoperculum — Length 30 



Length of shortest ray above the superior longi- 

 tudinal ridge 12 



Length of its angular processes about 22 



Teeth — Length of posterior vomerine tooth 14J 



Width " " " 3| 



Length of largest dentarv tooth 9 



Width " " '" 3 



The present species differs from the Caulopus boreaHs by the oblong opercu- 

 lum, the nearly equal triangular shape of the coalescent infraopercular bone 

 above the dividing ridge, but with an oblique excavation at its base which 

 describes nearly the third of a circle, as well as the sculpture of the portion 

 below the dividing ridge. The vomerine teeth are stronger but less elongated, 

 and the palatine approximated and not curved. 



This fish was discovered at Monterey, Lower California, by Mr. A. S. Taylor, 

 and the head as well as the caudal and ventral fins, all considerably mutilated 

 and "sun-dried," were preserved and forwarded to the Smithsonian Institu- 

 tion, in whose museum they are now contained. The notes of Mr. Taylor 

 describe it as an "eel-like fish," "shaped something like a Barracouta" 

 (Sphyrana) and apparently "a female (?)" It was " caught near Monterey 

 Rocks, 19 April, 1859." Its weight was seven pounds; the length "from 

 snout to end of tail four feet," circumference round the belly seven inches ;" 

 it had " simple viscera ; the gall bladder, three inches long, was filled with 

 transparent green gall ; it had two simple straight guts ; the female (?) organs 

 of the roe (not impregnated) white and four inches long." It was " evidently 

 in very poor condition." 



The species is " called ' serra,' or saw fish, by the Lower Californians, but 

 it is a very rare species." The specific name given to it has the advantage 

 of at the same time perpetuating the popular name and of being classical and 

 describing one of the peculiarities of the palatine dentition, which distin- 

 Efuishes it from the A. (C.) borealis, 



ALEPmOSAURUS (CArLOPUS) POEYI Gill. 



A species at least very nearly related to the A. (C.) serra, is found in the 

 Caribbean Sea. It has been noticed in M. Poey's " Conspectus Piscium Cuben- 

 sium" as perhaps a new species, or, perhaps, the other sex (sp. nova? an 

 sexus alter ?; of his Alepisaurus altivelis. That professor has kindly sent to 

 me outlines of both the Alepis'iurus altivelis and the doubtful form, and I find 

 that the dimensions of the latter and the present almost exactly agree in the 

 height of the head, length of the snout, size of the eyes, and depth of the lower 

 jaw. There appears, however, if full reliance is to be placed in the figure, to 

 be some difference in the opercular bones, that portion of the coalescent, in- 

 ferior, opercular piece, which is above the longitudinal dividing ridge, being 

 much wider towards the upper angle of the preoperculum, and not deeply 

 excavated on its oblique base, thus approaching the ^4. (C.) borealis: the 

 operculum itself appears to be less long, its longest ray being little more than 



1862.] 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



a third (31-100) of the head's length. The head itself is not so large, form- 

 ing only a seventli of the total length. Finally, the first dorsal spine is repre- 

 sented as being nearly over the axilla of the pectoral fin. M. Poey distin- 

 guishes it further from his A. altivelis in his correspondence as follows : 



" Le337 diflfC're du 619 par 15 fois la hauteur dans la longueur totale, au lieu 

 de 13. La tete 7 fois au lieu de 6^. De la base de la pectorale a la base de la 

 ventrale, ily a la meme distance que jusqu' a I'auale, moins ^, au lieu de 

 moins J. Premier rayon-dorsal i de I'autre au lieu de ^. Le 2e egal le ler. 

 Le 4e est le plus grand. Du 6e au 24 tons sout hauts, et cgaux, au lieu que 

 ohez (jl9 le 2 — 22 sont hauts, egaux. D. 41. Lobe =up. caudal prolonge, lobes 

 separt'S, trois rayons au melieu. Ventr. d'epassaut I'anus et la hauteur du 

 corps. Couleur de la dorsale uuiforme. Je n'ai pas note dans 619 que la ler 

 rayon fut rabotteux, ix la dorsale." 



In honor of the gentleman who has thus distinguished the species, it may 

 take the name of Alepidosaurus (Caulopus) Poeyi. 



On a new Species of PRIACANTHUS discovered in Narragansett Bay, E I. 

 BY THEUDOHE GILL. 



During a recent visit to Philadelphia, I discovered in the Museum of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences, a species of Priacanthus, which was at once 

 discovered to be most nearly allied to a species of Japan. In the same bottle 

 was a note confirming the label and giving the following information : " From 

 Mr. Philip Caswell ; taken at Cananicut Ferry, Narragansett Bay, Sept., 186(". 

 Color like Gold Fish." I am assured by Dr. Bridges, one of the principal 

 ichthyologists of Philadelphia, that he is liimself conversant with the circum- 

 stances of its discovery, and that there can be no doubt of the fact of its 

 having been found in Rhode Island as well as S<irothrodus maculo-cinctus 

 and Ilyporthodus Jiavicuuda, described in a previous number of these Pro- 

 ceedings, from the same State. 



The species may be named 



Priacanthus altus Gill. 



The height of the body equals about a half of the total length, inclusive of 

 the caudal fin. The head forms more than a third of the same. The diameter 

 of the eye in the young specimens is contained 2^ times in the head's length. 

 The posterior nasal aperture is a long curved slit. The angle of the preoper- 

 culum is armed with a strong spine passing beyond the branchial aper- 

 ture. The caudal fin truncated ; the spines of the dorsal and anal fins longi- 

 tudinally striated. The scales are proportionally large. The whole body is 

 rough. 



1 



D. X. 11. A. III. 9- 

 1 



The body appears to have been reddish or rose colored ; behind and at the 

 pectoral region, the color is plumbeous, but perhaps accidentally so. The 

 dorsal fin has its spinous portion punctulated witii very numerous blackisli 

 dots, and with two rows of large roundish clear spots, besides a row of smaller 

 basal ones and one of similar small spots near the margin ; the diameter of 

 the large spots nearly equals the space between adjoining spines. The soft 

 portion of the dorsal, as well as the anal and caudal fins, are more or less 

 dotted with blackisli ; the spinous portion of the anal also so thickly covered 

 as to be blackish. The pectoral fins are entirely blackish, the dots being 

 densely crowded. 



The specimen is little more than an inch (1 1-;") in length. 



[March ^ 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



There can be no doubt as to the validity of this species, as it widely diflFers 

 ill the number of its rays from all except one otherspecies of Priacanthus, and 

 especially from the formerly known American ones. The only species which 

 rersembles it in the number of the rays of the fins is a Japanese species — the 

 Priacanthus niphonius of Cuvier and Valenciennes, and the Fauna Japonica. 

 In other respects also the Japanese and North American species are closely 

 related. The f )rHi is nearly similar but the height even greater in ours than in 

 the Priacanthus niphonius, and consequently exceeding that of any othei 

 known species of the genus ; the scales of the body and head are very rough ; the 

 ventral fins in the young, at least, entirely blackish ; the spinous portion of 

 the anal fin is also very dark. It is probable that the species undergoes a 

 change of color somewhat similar to the Priacanthus niphonius. 



The discovery of three new species of fishes on the coast of Rhode Island, 

 all representing forms almost entirely confined to warmer seas, in such rapid 

 succession, is an event of no little interest and importance. The specimens 

 obtained were all young ; single examples only were found of the Sarothrodus 

 (Chceto'^lon RVLCt.) 7naculo-cinctus a.Tid the Priacanthus, and two of the Hijpor- 

 thodus flavicauda. They were all doubtless brought to the New England shores 

 by the Gulf Stream, which runs near the Rhode Island coa-t, and in which 

 the traveller often ilnds small fishes, as well as other animals, of which the 

 Isopod Criistacean, described below by Dr. Stimpson, is an example. None 

 of the three species of fishes previously mentioned have yet been seen in the 

 West Indian seas, where they will undoubtedly be hereafter found. It is 

 important also to compare the discovery of these fishes on our own northern 

 shores with the discovery on the Scandinavian and Greenland coasts of forms 

 equally characteristic of the tropics. In another article I will allude to the 

 analogy between the denizens of the Carribean and Japanese seas. 



On an oceaaic ISDPOD found naar the south-eastern shores of 2IassachusettE. 



BY WM. STIMPSON. 



In the summer of 1859, while cruising among the south-eastern islands of 

 Massachusetts in company with my friends Dr. Slack and Mr. Ordway, we 

 approached the shores of the beautiful island of Martha's Vineyard — the Isle 

 of Wight of New England. When becalmed in the Vineyard Sound north of 

 Gay Head, we were occupied in observing the small medusse ani other pelagic 

 animals which appeared near the surface of the water. Among them we no- 

 ticed some pretty blue isopods quite new to our shores, which reminded 

 me of forms which I had met with in the temperate parts of both great oceans. 

 They were swimming at the .surface and could be easily distinguished from 

 the deck of our boat, even at some distance, by the ripple they made in their 

 progress. Several of them were caught, and found to be IdothecB of that 

 oceanic type which has the habits of the miniature sailors Ph/jsalia, Velella 

 and Janthina, which are occasionally cast upon our south-eastern shores. It 

 proves to be 



Idothea robcst.v Kr. 



Body strongly convex, two and two-thirds as long as broad, and broadest 

 at the fifth thoracic segment ; lateral outline convex at the thorax, but some- 

 what concave at the abdomen. Surface pubescent. Inner antennre reaching 

 to the penultimate joint of the peduncle of the outer ones, which are less 

 than one-half the length of the body. Thoracic segments protuberant, and 

 laterally somewhat rugose ; their epimera large, distinct and rather sharply 

 projecting. Abdomen stroncrly three-jointed, with partial separation of a 



1862.] 




134 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



fourth joint, as in other species of the gronp. Extremity of the abdomen 

 truncated, or slightly excavated. Color in life deep blue beneath the silvery 

 or pearly pubescence. 



Length 0*8; greatest breadth 0-29 inch. 



Its nearest ally is /. margaritacea Dana, found in the ocean between Aus- 

 tralia and New Zealand, in which the abdomen is regularly rounded at the 

 extremity, while in our species there is a well-marked angle on either side. 



On the West African genus HEMICHROMIS and descriptions of new species 

 in the Museums of the Academy and Smithsonian Institution. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



Mr. P. DuChaillu, the African traveller, obtained among other objects of 

 natural history, specimens of several species of fishes, one of which is a new 

 form of Petwrs' genus Hemichromis. 



The genus Hemichromis was proposed, in 1857, by Dr. Peters for Chromoids, 

 having the habit of Chromis or Tilapia, and with a row of conic, brown tipped 

 teeth in each jaw, the two median of which in the upper were considerably 

 larger, and also with an interior row of smaller teeth in the upper jaw. The 

 only species was obtained in Guinea by Pel. 



Recently, M. August Dumeril has described and figured a species as a new 

 generic type under the name of Chromichthys dongatus Guichenot. It agrees 

 in every respect with Hemichromis, except in the presence of only one row of 

 teeth in the upper jaw. As, however, the inner row of Hemichromis is formed 

 by very small teeth, it is probable that it has been overlooked by Guichenot 

 and Dumeril, and that their species is therefore a genuine Hemichromis. 

 That genus will then embrace four species, which may be distinguished as 

 follows : 



Hemichromis fasciatps Peters. 



Hemichromis fasciatus Peters, Monatsberichte der Koniglichen Preuss. Akade- 

 mie die Wisseuschaften zu Berlin, 1857, p. 403. 



" Fasciis transversis fuscis sex, macula opercular! nigra; pinna dorsali et 

 anali oblique fasdatis, albo marginntis ; pintia caudal i supra injraquealbomargi- 

 nata; pinnis ventralibus externe fuscis." 



D. XIV. 11—12. A. in. 9—10. 



Habitat. Guinea. (Peters.) 



Hemichromis apritus Gill. 



Fasciis quinque, latere medio expansis, macula operculari nigra, margaritacea 

 supra infra jue minjinata ; pinnis ventralibus externa fusco-purpureis . 

 D. XIV. 11. A. III. 8. 

 Habitat. Gaboon River ? 



Hemichromis bimaculatus Gill. 



Unicolor, macula corporis latere unica et operculi apice nigris. 



11 3 



D. XIV. 1. Sy. A. III. 6j. Squam. ser. 25y. 



Hemichromis elokoatus Gill. 



Chromichthys elongatus (^Guich.,) Dum., Archives du Museum, tome x. p. 

 257, pi. xxii. lig. 3. 

 Fasciis quinque {macula opercid iri nulla) : squamis buccis quiuqueseriatis. 

 D. XIII. 9. A. III. 8. 

 Habitat. Gaboon River. 



[March. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



HEMICHROMiS ACKixrs Gill. 



The body is oblong and arched from the interorbital region to the end of the 

 dorsal, both of which are at the same horizon; the height is greatest under 

 the seventh dorsal spine where it nearly equals three-tenths ('29) of the 

 length; behind the dorsal fin, it exceeds an eighth ('13), and at the lowest 

 part nearly equals a ninth (-11) of the length. The greatest thickness is nearly 

 equal to a seventh of the length. 



The head forms three-tenths ('SO) of the total length ; its height at the pre- 

 opercular raar.iiin bears a proportion to the same length of 23-100, and at the 

 pupil of 1^-100. The profile above is perfectly rectilinear, and little oblique 

 along the intermaxillary groove, from the region above the pupil to the sym- 

 phisis of the jaw. The snout is acutely conical and nearly equals a third of 

 the head's length (9-100 of total.) The preorbital bone is highest behind, 

 and exceeds half the diameter of the eye, while between that point and the 

 nostrils it equals the same half. The preoperculum is vertical behind, slightly 

 prooainent at its angle and obliquely curved forwards. The operculum forms 

 less than a third (9-30) of the head's length, and its angle is rounded. The 

 subopercular border behind is nearly vertical, and has a shallow emargiuation, 

 while below it is very obliquely rounded ; the height of the operculum and 

 suboperculum combined exceeds half (16-30) of the head's length. The in- 

 terorbital region is flattened, and the sinus for the pedicles of the intermax- 

 illary bones is indicated by a semielliptical outline, terminating at the vertical 

 of the front border of the pupil. 



The teeth are tipped with brown and in a regular row in each jaw, about 

 twenty-five on each side in the upper (25 I. I. 25), and sixteen in the lower 

 16(-3, 4-)16 ; the two front teeth of the upper are two or three times as long as 

 the others, and that on each side is also rather larger than the others. The 

 three or four teeth on each at the front are somewhat larger and separated 

 from the others. The second series of small teeth, which are also tipped with 

 brown, is separated by a wide interval in front, but gradually approaches the 

 outer row towards the side. 



The dorsal fin commences over the end of the operculum ; its base is one 

 and a half times longer than the head (44^ of length) ; the spinous portion 

 exceeds the head's length (-31), and the soft is considerably less than half as 

 long (-13^). The spines rapidly aud regularly increase in a curved line from 

 the first to the fifth, and behind the latter very slowly increase towards the 

 last : the first spine nearly equals the lesser height of the preorbital bone ( 'S^), 

 and is much less than half as long as the filth ('8) and less than a third as 

 long as the last one ('11). The soft portion is acuminated at the middle or 

 sixth ray, which exceeds by half the length of the longest spine as well as 

 the last ray. 



The anal fin commences under the third ray of the dorsal fin, aud ends under 

 or nearly under or slightly behind its last ; its base exceeds an eiizhth ('12) 

 of the total length ; the three spines regularly increase ('4 ; "Tj ; '9) towards 

 the soft part ; the latter is acuminated like the dorsal, its longest ray equal- 

 ling that of the dorsal ("16), and twice the length of its last ray ("S). 



The caudal fin, when expanded, is almost truncated, the median rays form- 

 ing almost a fifth ('19), and the longest quite equalling a fifth ("20) of the 

 total length. 



The pectoral fins are slender and equal the longest dorsal and anal rays ("16). 

 The ventral fins are immediately behind the vertical of the lower axilla of the 

 pectorals. The spine equals a third ("10) of the head's length, and is as long 

 as the fifth ray : the first ray is simply bifurcated, and equals •23 of the total 

 length ; the other rays doubly or triply subdivided. 



The scales are nearly equal, except on the abdomen, where they are mucJi 

 smaller. There are twenty-five oblique rows, and at its deepest portion thir- 

 teen longitudinal rows, three of which are above and nine below the lateral 



1862.] 




loG PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



line, while on the caudal peduncle there are seven rows, three above and three 

 below. The anterior portion of the lateral line runs along eighteen scales, 

 and the posterior along nine. A row from the front of the anus would end 

 above, near the seventh dorsal spine. The scales of the cheeks are in three 

 regular rows, without including those in the limb. 



D. XIV. 11. A. III. 8. C. 3. I. 7. 7. I. 3. P. I. 1. 13. V. I. 5. 



The color of alcoholic specimens is purplish brown above, fading into lighter 

 on the sides, where margaritaceous spots on each scale form faint, interrupted 

 longitudinal lines. The sides have five ovate black spots terminating in 

 lighter processes above and below, and forming indistinct vertical bands. The 

 first is above the base of the pectoral fin ; the second on the seventh to ninth 

 oblique rows of scales ; the third above the spines of the anal fin ; the fourth 

 nearly behind the fins, and the fifth at the base of the caudal. The head is 

 uniform and like the body, except at the angle of the operculum, where there 

 is a rhomboidal black spot, and bordered before and behind, below the angle, 

 with margaritaceous. The fins are immaculate ; the ventrals only having the 

 external half dark purple. 



This species is closely allied to the Hemichromis fasciatus of Peters, but is 

 distinguished from it by the uniform color of the fins, the presence of only 

 five vertical bands, the margaritaceous margination of the opercular spot and 

 the presence of only eight anal rays, the last two of which are simple, but 

 entirely separated. Dr. Peters attributes to his species the formula for the 



3 

 scales 28 -, I do not know whether this indicates the actual number of rows 



9 

 or the sum of those pierced for the two parts of the lateral line. If the latter 

 is the case, it would nearly agree with the H. auritus. 



Specimens of this species were obtained by Mr. DuChaillu in the Gaboon 

 River,* and are preserved in the Museums of the Academy of Natural Sci- 

 ences of Philadelphia and of the Smithsonian Institution. 



Length from snout to end of median caudal rays 4^ 100 



Body— Greatest height ." 29 



Height behind dorsal fin 13 



Height of caudal peduncle 11 



Length " " 10^ 



Greatest thickness 13^ 



Head — Length laterally 30 



Height at preopercular margin 23 



'' " pupil 18 



" of preorbital end of jaw 4| 



" " near nostril 3| 



Length of snout 9 



* Many specimens of a n«w Cyprinodont allied to the African Pofciticp of A. Dumeril 

 were also collected. It may be called Kpiplatys gexfasciatus Gill. Allied to E. homalo- 

 nutus, but the head above is ohionff, with the snout transversely semicircular and the 

 lower jaw little but uniformly prominent. The caudal peduncle is not constricted, and 

 its length equals the height behind the dorsal. 



3 



D. 3. 7. (3. 8.) A. 3. 12. Scales 28-. 



5 



The color is reddish, wiih six bands below the lateral line ; Is', behind the j)e toral ; 

 2d, close before the ventral ; 3d, close before I he anal; 4ih, over ninih to eleventh anal 

 rays ; 5th, behind dorsal ; 6th. at end of caudal peduncle. 



'I'he name of Epipla/ys is proposed for the present species and the PoeciUa omalonata, 

 P. spylarrrifreia and P. spilavcfien of A. Dumeril, which differ frt.m the true J'oecilicB 

 ? P. vivipura Schneid., P. Smi/iamensis Val.) by the longer anal, whose hinder portion 

 is opposite to thf dorsal, &c. Molliiiesia is distinguished by the difierence of the sexes 

 and the large dorsal. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADEI-rHIA. 137 



Length of front operculum 9 



Height of operculum and saboperculum 16 



Width of interorbital area 8.V 



Eye — Diameter 7] 



Dorsal — Origin from snout 32 



Length of base 31 + 13.1 



Height at first spine 3i 



" " fifth spine 8 



*' " last spine 11 



" " louiiest ray It) 



" " last' ray .". 9 



Anal — Origin from sudut 57 



Length of base 12 



Height at first spine 4 



" " second spine '•> 



" " third spine 9 



" " longest rav 11 



" " last ray...'. 8 



Caudal — Length of median rays 19 



^ " '■ longest rays 20 



Pectoral— Length 16 



Ventral — Length of spine 10 



" " first rav 23 



" " fifth ray 10 



HeMICHROMIS BIMACrLATUS Gill. 



The form is similar to that of its congeners, and is highest under the fifth 

 and sixth dorsal spines, the height there somewhat exceeding a quarter ('26) 

 of the extreme length ; that of the caudal peduncle, behind the anal fin, 

 equals half of the greatest height, and that of the lowest part exceeds a ninth 

 (•Hi) of the total length, and is considerably greater than the length of the 

 peduncle. The thickness of the body at the pectoral region equals half the 

 height (-13). 



The head forms three-tenths ('-SO) of the length ; its height at the preoper- 

 cular margin exceeds a fifth ("22), and that at the pupil nearly equals a sixth 

 (•16) of the total length of the fish. The length of the snout equals an eleventh 

 (•9) of the same, and exceeds twice the height of the preorbital bone (•4). 

 The length of the operculum is twice as great as the height of preorbital ('S). 

 The eyes are oval, and the longitudinal diameter equals the length of the 

 operculum ("8), and is greater than the width of the forehead between them ; 

 the latter is plain, the emargination for the intermaxillary processes being 

 very shallow and extending little beyond the anterior borders of the orbits. 

 The mouth is small and oblique ; the supramaxillars extend backwards to the 

 anterior borders of the orbits. 



The larger teeth are moderate, uniserial and nearly or quite contiguous in 

 each jaw; there are about twenty on each side in the upper and seventeen in the 

 lower jaw. besides the two larger on each side in front in the upper and one 

 equal in size to the rest, but removed backward? on each side in the lower ; 

 the teeth of the inner, small, transverse ro'v of the upper jaw are well devel- 

 oped, but much smaller than the outer, and two to four on each side separated 

 by a wide interval from those of the opposite side. 



The dorsal fin commences over the base of the pectoral, or at a distance 

 from the snout exceeding the head's length ('31) ; its spinous portion equals 

 •28 of the total length, and its soft nearly an eighth (•12) ; the former in- 

 creases in a gradually curved line towards the soft portion, the first spine 

 being very short (^2^), the fourth more than twice as long (-6), and the last 

 nearly four times as long (•09). The soft portion is produced at the median 

 1862.] 




138 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



rays which equal at least a sixth of total length, while the last double ray equals 

 a tenth. 



The anal fin commences before the vertical of the last dorsal spine and is 

 coterminal with the dorsal fin, its base equalling a seventh (•14) of the total 

 length. The three spines rapidly increase in length, equalling respectively 

 the first, fourth and fifteenth dorsal ones ('02^, -06, -08) ; the produced median 

 rays nearly equal a seventh (-15) and the last a tenth (-10) of the total length. 



The caudal fin appears to have been truncated behind and rounded at its 

 angles, and forms nearly a fifth ('19; of the length. The pectorals nearly or 

 perhaps quite equal the caudal in length. The ventrals are also about equal 

 to the caudal. 



The scales are normally large, there being about twenty-five oblique rows ; 

 the anterior portion of the lateral line runs through eighteen and the posterior 

 through nine scales. There are three rows above and nine below the lateral 

 line in front, and on the caudal peduncle three above and three below. The 

 buccal scales appear to be triserial. 

 1 1 



D. XIV. 1. 8 -. A. III. 8-. C. 2. 1. 7. 7. 1. 2. P. 2. 12. V. I. .5. 

 1 1 



The color is uniformly purplish red, fading into lighter below. There is a 

 single vertical black spot under the lateral line, below the twelfth and thir- 

 teenth dorsal spines. The operculum is also black at its angle. 



The following is a table of the relative proportions of the species ; the 

 measurements in this, as in all other cases, being taken by compasses, and 

 indicating the direct dimensions without consideration of any curvature. 



Extreme length 3| 100 



Body — Greatest height 26 



Height behind fins 13 



Least height of caudal peduncle llj 



Length of peduncle 9 



Head— Length 30 



Height at preoperculum 22 



" " pupil 16 



" of preorbital bone 4 



Length of operculum 8 



Length of snout 9 



Greatest width 13 



Width of interorbital area 7 



Eye — Diameter 8 



Dorsal — Distance from snout 31 



Length of spinous part 28 



Height at first spine 21 



" " fourth spine 6 



" " last spine 9 



Length of soft part 12 



Height at longest ray 17 



" " last ray 10 



Anal — Length of base 14 



Height at first spine 2.J 



" " second spine i> 



" " third spine 8 



*' " longest ray 15 



" " last ray 10 



Caudal — Length of external ray 19 



Pectoral — Length IS 



Ventral— Length IS 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



139 



This is a very distinct species, readily distinguished by the small mouth 

 and short intermaxillary processes, as well as by its dimensions and the color. 



A single specimen is in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution, to 

 which it has been transferred from the former National Institute of the City 

 of Washington. There is no indication of locality, but it is probable that it 

 was sent from Liberia. With it are three other species, a foetal lihinolxdus, 

 a new Clarias* and a new Mormijroid,\ all in a poor state of preservation. 



Three African genera of Chromoids appear to be now known, all of which 

 differ from the American ones. All have a regular form, interrupted lateral 

 line, large scales and three anal spines. They may be briefly distinguished as 

 follows : 



TiLAPiA A. Smith, A. Dumcril. 

 Chromis HecTcel, Miiller, Peters, Gunther, (uec Cuv.) 

 t Coptodon Gervais. (? = Hallgenes Gthr.) 



Corpus ovatum ; caput breve ; dentes apicibus oblique expansis, uni vel bi- 

 emarginatis, in maxilla superior! triseriales, inferior! biseriales. 



Type. Tilapia nilotica. 



Haligenes Gunther. 



Corpus ovatum ; caput breve ; dentes apicibus oblique expansis, uni vel * 

 biemarginatis ; in maxilla superior! biseriales, serie interna miuores, infe- 

 riori uniseriales. 



Type. Haligenes Tristram! Giinther. 



Hemichromis Peters. 



Corpus oblongum ; caput oblongo-conicum, acutum ; dentes conici, apici- 

 bus nigri, in maxilla superior! biseriales, serie interna minuti, inferior! uni- 

 seriales. 



Type. Hemichromis fasciatus Peters. 



* Clarias Icpviceps Gill. — Height at anus a lenth of length ; head (laterally) a sixth ; its 

 breadth an eighth ; the surface smooth ; maxillary barbels twice as long as head. 



D. 86. A 61. 



t Marcuseniiis brachi/lstins Gill. — The height in front of the anal fin equals a fif.h of 

 the length, exclusive of the caudal, and scarcely exceeds the length of the head. The 

 distance of the short dorsal from the snout is three and a half times {'69) greater than 

 the head's length; the anal has about ten rays before and four behind ihe dorsal. The 

 pectorals are shorter than the head ( 15) and scarcely extend as far as the buses of the 

 ventrals. The head is decurved and the snout convex. All the teeth (about six in each 

 jaw) are em irginated. 



D. II. 1. 14. A. II. 1. 24. locales 50; between ventrals and lateral line 10 rows; in 

 9 

 front of anal T. 



9 

 Widely distinguished from its cnngeners {M. avguilloides, M, Tuchcyi and M. zamba- 

 nerije) by the railial and scale formulK. 

 The Mormyroids are divisible as follows: 



I. Dorsal very long. Vomer covered by anterior processes of pala- 



tine bones ; cerebellum entirely concealed above. . . . Mormyrin.b. 



Muzzle tubiiliform {M. caschive Has.) Mormyrus. 



Muzzle obtuse (Mi/a.'sse/f/ia'siij Geoff.) Morinyrodes. 



II. Dorsal more or less ai)breviated. Vomer uncovered. Cerebellum 



and quadrigeminal bodies niore or less exposed above. . . Petrocephalin.<E. 



A. Snout not produced ; mouth not continued to vertit-al of eyes. 



a. Anal (25 — 50), not more than twice ns long as dorsal 



Lower jaw prominent, iV. o7/n'M/7/o(V/e*(. L . . . Mormyrops. 

 Upper jaw longer, (.U. ci//3rt'«"fVZc« L.) .... Marcusenius. 



b. Anal three times as long as dorsal. 



I'alatal teeth /ii^f/^r/M (M domalis Geoff.) . . . Hypcropisus. 



B. Snout produced. Mouth under eye, (iV/. ia/ic Val.) . . Perocephalus, 



1862.] 




liO PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Catalogue of the Fishes of Lower California in the Smithsonian Institution, 

 collected by Mr. J, Xantus. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



Mr. John Xantus, when stationed at Cape St. Lucas, Lower California, as a 

 tidal observer for the coast survey, brought together a very large collection of 

 objects of natural history, among which is a most excellent series of the fishes 

 of the coast. The collections were formed under the auspices and direction of 

 the Smithsonian Institution, to which the species were sent from time to time 

 and deposited in its museum. By permission of the Secretary of the Institu- 

 tion, I propose to give a preliminary synopsis of the species discovered on that 

 coast, embracing descriptions of tlie numerous new species. At a future time 

 I trust that I shall be enabled to publish a more complete monograph accom- 

 panied by figures of the various species. The following descriptions are, how- 

 ever, pertinent, and will enable naturalists, in most cases, to readily identify 

 the species. The Pomacentroids are the only ones, I believe, concerning which 

 there can be doubt, but I think that I have succeeded in giving them, also, their 

 distinctive characters after an examination of many species. 



In the final part of this catalogue, the peculiarities of the Fauna of Lower 

 California will be discussed, and its relations to that of other regions. Some 

 species are common to even the temperate seas of South America and the 

 West Indies, but a very large proportion of those discovered are new. 



Family LABROID.E (Cuv.) Bleeker. 



Subfamily Labrin^ (Bon.) Gill. 



The representatives of the Labrina; found in the California waters belong to 

 the "group" of Julidina, characterized by Dr. Giinther in his excellent Synop- 

 sis of the Labroid Genera. The course of the lateral line appears to be more 

 important than the number of spines, and, consequently, we may associate 

 those Labroids with an interrupted or suddenly deflected line (except Gom- 

 phosini¥) in one subfamily, (Xirichthyinae) and provisionally refer the rest of 

 the Julidina, the Hypsigenina and Labrina of Dr. Giinther to one subfamily, 

 (Labrinae) as I know of no important characters coincident with the number of 

 dorsal spines. 



Only one species of the Labrinae inhabiting the California coast has been 

 hitherto described. It is the Semicoi>fyphus pjikhcr Gihr. (Labrus pulcher Ayres.) 

 Two new species are now described, both of which belong to the genus Harpe 

 (Lac.) or Cossyphus Cnx., (not Fabricius.) 



Genus HARPE Lac. 



This may be retained as by Lacepede for those species whose median dorsal 

 and anal iHys become much extended in the adult. The Cossi/phus axillaris 

 Cuv. et Val. &c., may be then referred to a new genus (^Lepidaplois) distin- 

 guished bj' the nearly uniform anal. 



Harpe diplot^nia Gill. 

 The greatest height, inclusive of the scaly sheath of the dorsal fin, equals a 

 fourth of the length from the snout to the end of the median caudal rays. The 

 head scarcely exceeds the height ; its profile is not or very little gibbous in 

 the adult. The preopercuhim is entire or scarcely crennlated ; its posterior 

 margin is vertical, and its angle obliqueU' rounded. The eye is subcircular, 

 contained about six times in the head's length, and distant from the snout about 

 two diameters and-a-half. The height of the preorbital bone equals half the 

 length of the snout. The mouth is moderate, the supramaxillary bone ending 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



nearly under the posterior nostril. The four canine front teeth of the upper 

 jaw are conoid, and of nearly equal size, the two median curved slightly for- 

 wards, and the external downwards and sideways ; the four of the loioer jaw have 

 nearly the same inclination for wards ; the two median are aubot half as long as the 

 external, contiguous to thera, and themselves inclining towards each other. Behind 

 the canine teeth are small granular ones. 



The acuminated dorsal and anal fin3 increase in length with the age of the 

 fish, and in the adult the former extends nearly to, and the latter beyond the 

 median caudal rays, while the external rays of the caudal are twice as long as 

 the median. The ventrals of the adult are also elongated, and extend to the 

 third anal spine. The pectorals are as long as the head in front of the oper- 

 cnlam. 



The scales are moderately large, there being thirty-three along the lateral 

 line, five rows above, at the origin of the dorsal fin, and twelve rows beneath. 

 On the caudal peduncles there are four rows above, and five beneath. 



D. XII. 11. A. III. 13. 



The color is brownish yellow, reticulated on the trunk with a dark brownish 

 hue, which margins each scale. A dark band commences behind the snout, 

 obliquely tends towards the eye, and behind is divided into two, the upper of 

 which runs along the oculo-scapular groove, is continued high on the side, and 

 nearly joins the corresponding one on the back of the caudal peduncle; the 

 lower one crosses the operculum at its angle, and on the caudal peduncle runs 

 along the lateral line, but ceases before the end of the latter, and alternates 

 with two spots behind the base of the caudal fin. A band less distinct runs 

 on the head from the angle of the mouth, and passes close above the angle of 

 the preoperculum. The pectoral fins are immaculate and yellowish ; the spi- 

 nous dorsal has its postspinal tips orange ; the posterior parts of the dorsal and 

 anal as well as of the caudal are yellowish, while the rest is darker. The first 

 ray of the ventrals is orange. 



Two specimens of this species were sent to the Smithsonian Institution by 

 Mr. Xantus ; one is in spirits and is nearly nine inches long. The dorsal ex- 

 tend back to the end of the caudal scales ; the anal to the base of the lower 

 caudal rays; the external caudal rays are scarcely produced; the ventrals do 

 not extend to the anus. The other is about sixteen inches long ; the dorsal 

 ends raiher behind the caudal scales, while the anal is much produced, and ex- 

 tends as far back as the posterior caudal margin ; the external caudal rays of 

 the naked part of the caudal are nearly twice as long as the others. 



H.iRPE PKCTORALLIS Gill. 



The greatest height is little more than a third of the length. The head is con- 

 tained about three times and a third in the same length, and in the young is 

 symmetrical and conical, the profile being nearly straight, but in the adult the 

 forehead is very gibbous above the eyes. The preoperculum is either entire or 

 very slightly crenulated, vertical behind, and with its angle obliquely rounded 

 and curved forwards. The eye is subcircular, and its diameter a little less than 

 a sixth of the head's length ; it is distant two and-a-half times its diameter 

 from the snout; the height of the preorbital bone equals half the length of the 

 snout. The mouth is moderate, the supramaxillary bone ending nearly under 

 the posterior nostril. The four large teeth of the upper jaw are nearly equal 

 in size; the median are approximated and curved outwards, and are separated 

 by a diastema from the external, each of which is curved downwards and out- 

 wards. Of the front teeth of the lower jaw, the two median are very small, 

 nearly vertical, and separated by a diastema from the external, which are as large 

 as those of the upper and directed forwards. Behind the large teeth is a band 

 of granular ones. 



The summits or angles of all the fins, except the pectoral, become elongated 

 with advancing age, so that, finally, the dorsal extends backwards nearly to, 



1862.] 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and the anal beyond the median caudal rays ; the external caudal rays increase, 

 and become twice as long aa the median, and the ventral extend backwards 

 nearly as far as the base of the anal. Tlie pectorals are constant in their pro- 

 portion, and equal the length of the head exclusive of the operculum. 



5 4 



D. XII. 11. A. III. 13. Scales 32—33 . 



12 5 



When dried, the color is brownish-yellow, and reticulated, the margin of 

 each scale being darker. The terminal halves of the posterior dorsal and anal 

 fins, as well as of the shorter caudal rays, are orange ; the largest caudal rays, 

 and the anterior borders of the dorsal and anal are reddish ; the rest of these 

 fins, as well as the ventrals, are darker. The pectorals are orange, with its tip 

 marked by a large dark spot. 



" When alive, a yellow patch of the size of a half dollar is just behind the 

 side (pectoral) fins. Head, tail, and all the fins bright red, with the tips black 

 and yellow. Whole body bright blue." 



It is allied to Harpe rufus — Cos^yphus rufusGlhv., or Cossyphus bodianus Cxxv. 



There are three specimens in the collection: — 



1st. One a foot long from the snout to the concavity of the caudal, beyond 

 which the external rays project about an inch ; the dorsal extends little beyond 

 the scaly sheath of the caudal, and the anal to the middle of the external rays ; 

 the ventrals reach the anal. The forehead is not gibbous. 



2d. One sixteen inches long to the concavity of the caudal fin, of which the 

 exposed parts of the external rays are twice as long as those of the others; the 

 dorsal extends backward nearly to, and the anal beyond the caudal margin; 

 the ventrals pass the middle of the base of the anal. The hump of the fore- 

 head exceeds by a half the eye's diameter. 



3d. An old specimen, two feet long, with the caudal lobes rather more pro- 

 duced, but the dorsal, anal and ventrals rather less than in the second. The 

 hump on the forehead is very elevated, and twice the diameter of the eye. 



Subfamily XIRICHTHYINAE Gill. 



Group JULIDES. 



Genus JULIS (Cuv.) Gunther.* 



JuiilS LUCASANCS Gill. 



The height at its highest part equals a fifth (19-20) of the total length. 

 The head is oblong, moderately decurved in front of the eyes, and forms nearly 

 a quarter of the total length ; its height above the preopercular margin nearly 

 equals two thirds (15-24) of its own length, and over the pupil, a half (12-24). 

 The length of the snout equals a third and is about twice as great as the 

 height of the preorbital. The diameter of the eye equals a quarter of the 

 head's length. Tlie interorbital area is nearly arched transversely, and its 

 shortest width exceeds the diameter of the orbit. 



The dorsal fin commences nearly over the bases of the ventral fins, and ia 



* The Jidis modesliix of Girard (HaliclurrfS rali/orvirus Gther) belougs to this genus. 

 The discription by (iirard of ihis species, as well as most oihers, is very defective, the 

 chiiracters being chittly vague or generic. 'J lie Julis iiiodesius has an oblong, acutely 



2 3 

 conic head ; D. VIII. 14 ; scales 26 — -. Lin. la». ant. 20 ; the tubes of the lateral lines 



10 3 

 simple and straight. 



I have not seen the Julis semic'ncfus of .Ayres, but on account of its height and the 

 presence of nine dorsal spines, am inchned to refer it to Halichwres, or rather C/icerojulis, 

 the former name being preoccupied for a genus of Seals. Ayres, like Girard, may have 

 mistaken the number of ""pines, but it may be assumed ihat he is correct. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



uearly uniform at its respective parts, the soft being rather higher than the 

 spinous. 



The anal fin commences at or close before the middle of the length. 



The caudal, when expanded, is truncated, and forms a sixth ('17) of the 

 total length. 



The pectorals have very oblique bases, and equal in length the height of 

 the body, ("lO). The ventrals are inserted somewhat before the lower axilla 

 of the pectoral, from which each is separated by a space equal to the base of 

 the pectoral. The length equals an eleventh of the total. 



The tubules of the lateral line are generally more or less trifid (rarely quad- 

 rifid) on each scale. 



1 



D. VIII. 13. A. III. 10 -. Scales 25. 

 1 



The color of the upper half, except a lighter band below the dorsal fin, is 

 dark purplish, and abruptly separated from the light brownish or rose of the 

 lower half. The soft portion of the dorsal is margined with whitish ; the 

 rest, as well as almost the whole of the spinous portion, is dark. The basal 

 half of the anal is light brownish, and the margined half whitish. The cau- 

 dal has above and below a narrow marginal line of whitish and a submar- 

 ginal purplish band ; the rest is yellowish. The upper axilla of the pecto- 

 rals has a dark purple dot. 



Many specimens of this species, the largest of which is three inches long, 

 were obtained by Mr. Xantus. 



Group XIRICHTHY^E. 



This group, embracing the Xirichthyinse with an interrupted line, is repre- 

 sented by a number of genera which may be briefly characterized as follows : 



I. Dorsal spines 9 (10). 



A. First two spines forming a distinct fin. 



Cheeks with small scales Novacula. 



Cheeks naked {Xirichthys pavo C. V.) Iniistius. 



B. Dorsal fin continuous. 



C. Cheeks naked. 



St. Scales large. 



Ventrals thoracic Xirichthys. 



Ventrals subjugular {Xir. t(BniurusC. V.) Malacocentrus. 



0. Scales small {Xir. microlepidotus C. V.) Cymolutes Gthr. 



CC. Cheeks with large scales. 

 «t. Supramaxillars normal. 



1. Head and eyes moderate. 



Dorsal and anal acutely angulated near end Cheilinus. 



Dorsal and anal angulated at end {Cheil. arena- 



tus C. V.) Oxycheilinus. 



2. Head very large ; eyes small ( Cheil. undulatus C. V.)..Cras3ilabrus. 

 0. Supramaxillars prelonged behind by a membran- 

 ous extension Epibulus. 



II. Dorsal spines 11 Cirrhilabrus. 



There is another genus (Doratonotus Gthr.) which is said to have the spinous 



portion of the dorsal strongly depressed in the middle. It has as yet been 

 only indicated. The Xirichthys altipinnis of Riippell has a similar depression 

 of the dorsal. 



Xirichthys musdiceps Gill. 

 The greatest height close behind the ventral fins nearly equals a quarter 

 (23-100) of the total length ; the elevation above the axis is nearly uniform 

 at the spinous dorsal, but under the soft is slowly decurved to the caudal pe- 



1862.] 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



duncle ; the preanal region is nearly horizontal, but behind is nearly recti- 

 linear and slowly trends upwards to the caudal. The height of the caudal 

 peduncle equals a tenth (-10) of the total length. 



The head is scarcely longer than high, and curved from the dorsal to the 

 eyes ; it is laterally rhomboid, the profile in front of the eyes descending down- 

 wards in a nearly straight and oblique line at an angle of about 43* to the 

 longitudinal axis of the body, and nearly parallel with the preoperculum. 

 The length from the snout to the end of the subopercular membrane con- 

 stitutes a quarter of the total, and is a fifth greater than the height at the 

 vertical margin of the preoperculum. The snout (from the orbit to the sym- 

 phisis of the intermaxillaries) is more than a third (9-27) of the head's length, 

 and nearly twice (9-5) as great as the oblique height of the preorbital. The 

 eye is moderate, the diameter being contained between five and six (4}-25) 

 times in the length of the head ; the distance from the profile equals two- 

 thirds of that diameter ; that from the lower margin of the preoperculum 

 nearly (8-9) equals the distance from the snout. 



The preoperculum is rounded at its angle, vertical behind and horizontal 

 below. The operculum equals the depth of the preorbital, and the suboper- 

 culum extends nearly an eye's diameter, the distance between the end of the 

 subopercular membrane and the preoperculum equalling the height of the 

 operculum behind the latter. 



The dorsal fin commences nearly over the middle of the operculum, or more 

 than a fifth ('21) of the total from the snout ; the spinous portion occupies a 

 quarter ('25), and the articulate much more than a quarter ('29) of the total 

 length. The spinous portion is nearly uniform, the first spine nearly equal- 

 ling the diameter of the orbit ('4) and the second and following exceeding it, 

 (•5 — •()) : the whole fin almost imperceptibly increases towards the middle of 

 the soft part. The articulated rays are not branched, the last only being di- 

 vided at its base. 



The anal fin commences behind the second fifth of the length and nearly 

 under the ninth dorsal spine ; its base equals a third ('33) of the total length : 

 its height is nearly iiniform. 



The caudal is scarcely convex, and forms a sixth ("17^) of the length. 

 The pectoral fins extend nearly to the vertical of the anus, and equal in 

 length a sixth ('16) of the total length. 



The ventrals are inserted under the lower axilla of the pectoral, and the 

 length equals an eleventh ("9) of the total ; they are acutely pointed, the first 

 ray being considerably longest. 



The scales are in twenty-four oblique transverse rows ; at the region of great- 



1 3 



est height in ten longitudinal ones, (-) and on the caudal peduncle in seven (-) 



9 3 



rows. The lateral line is composed of simple tubules ; its elevated part run? 

 through nineteen and its caudal portion through five scales. 

 11 1 13 



D. IX. 11 - - A. III. 10 -. Scales 24 . Lat. line 19—5. 



19 1 8 3 



The color is uniform flesh-colored tinged with brown. 



Total length, 3^ 100 



Body — Height over ventrals 23 



" oftail 10 



Width 8 



Bead — Length 25 



Width 1' 



Height at preopercnlum 20 



Height of preorbital .^i 



Length of operculum 10 



[March. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 146 



Orbit — Diameter 4^ 



Distance from snout 9 



" " profile 3 



" above preopercolum 8 



Dorsal — Distance from snout 21 



Length of spinous part 25 



soft part 29 



Anal — Distance from snout 42 



Length 33 



Caudal — Length 17J 



Pectoral — Length 16 



Ventral — Length 9 



Numerous specimens were obtained by Mr. Xantus, bat most of them are 

 verj small ; the largest is less than four inches long. 



Genus INIISTIUS Gill. 



LnIISTIDS JICNDIC02PUS Gill. 

 This species has the same form of the head and body as Iniisthi^ pavo. The 

 greatest height equals three-tenths (-30) of the length and that of the caudal 

 peduncle a ninth (.1 1) ofthe same. The head forms less than three-tenths ("28) 

 of the length, and is equal to the height over the preoperculum. The eye is 

 small, its diameter entering seven times (••!) in the bead's length ; it is distant a 

 diameter from the profile. The height of the preorbital equals a tenth (-10) of 

 the total length. The front teeth ofthe upper and lower jaws are nearly equal, 

 and those ofthe latter are received between those of the former. The anterior 

 occipital spine equals the length of the pectoral and nearly a fifth (-19) of the 

 total. The ventrals exceed a seventh (-15) of the length and are inserted en- 

 tirely under the upper angle of the base of the pectoral. The caudal scarcely 

 forms a seventh (-14) ofthe length. 

 1 1 



D. n. VIL 22, 19 -. A. 3, 11-. C. 2, 5, 5. 2. P. 2, 10. V. L 5. Scales 

 1 1 



2 3 2 



24 — . 25 inclusive of large one on caudal, — behind occipital fin ; at anus-. 

 10 10 8 



The body is yellowish or brownish and entirely immaculate. The dorsal 

 alone has several oblique bars between its rays. 



One specimen, nearly ten inches long, was obtained by Mr. Xantus at Cape 

 St. Lucas, and is now in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution. The 

 right front tooth ofthe lower jaw is deflected forwards horizontally. 



Family POMACENTROID^. 



Genus EUSCHISTODUS Gill.* 



This name is appropriated to a group of Pomacentroids having nearly the 

 same physiognomy a.s ITypsi/pops, but the teeth, instead of being entire, are very 



• A second species of this genus is an inhabitant of Panama, where it was discovered 

 by Capt. J. M. Dow. 



The forehead is transversely convex but not arched, the profile in front less steep, the 

 preorbital higher behind, and the caudal peduncle shorter than in Euschistodua declii-ifrct* 



D. XIII. 12. A. II. 10. 

 4 3 



Scales 26 , L. 1. 21. 



10 3 



The color is uniformly chocolate or purplish brown ; the bases of ihe pectorals •« Vth 

 falciform black line pointed below. 



The^^species may be named EuscMtiodus concolor. 



1862.] 10 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



deeply and acutely notched. The genus Gh/phidodon, vrhoae teeth are emar- 

 ginated, have also a short conic head and low (or narrow) preorbital bones. 



EnSCHISTODUS DECLIVIFBONS Gill. 



The region of greatest height is at the sixth dorsal spine ; the height there, 

 exclusive of the dorsal sheath, -45^ of the total length ; behind the vertical fins 

 the height equals '18, and at the lowest portion of the caudal peduncle '15 of 

 the length. 



The outline from the dorsal fin to the nape is convex and very oblique, then 

 rectilinear, and at an angle of 50" to the axis as far as the interorbital region, 

 which is transversely convex ; in front the profile is also nearly rectilinear and 

 at an angle of about 73° ; the snout, or rather jaw. is convex or curved inwards. 

 The length of the head forms a quarter of the length, inclusive of the median 

 caudal rays, and equals the height at the vertical of the pupil, but is a sixth 

 less than that at the vertical of the preoperculum. The nape is above the 

 hinder margin of the orbit. The length of the snout exceeds a third (9-25) 

 of the head's, and is twice as great as the greatest depth of the preorbital bone 

 and nearly three times (9 — 3^) as great as the depth at the angle of the mouth. 

 The preoperculum is entirely vertical behind, horizontal below and obtusely 

 angulated. The operculum forms about a third of the head's length ('8 J) ; the 

 operculum and suboperculum together are two and a third times (20 — 8i) higher 

 than the length of the operculum. The eye is contained nearly three times (9-25) 

 in the length of the head, and the interorbital area is transversely arched and 

 exceeds the eye's diameter. 



The mouth is small and its periphery semioval ; the lower jaw is considerably 

 shorter than the upper. The supramaxillary bone ends under the anterior mar- 

 gin of the orbit. The lower lip has a free margin, but it is partially attached 

 at the symphysis. 



The dorsal fia commences at the vertical from the upper axilla of the pec- 

 toral fin ; its spinous portion nearly equals two-fifths ("39) and its soft a seventh 

 (•14) of the total length; the spines progressively increase in a curved line 

 towards the fifth, the first spine equalling half the length of the ventral spine 

 (•5.]) ; the fifth, from its base, much exceeds ("13), and on its exposed part 

 nearly equals (-10) twice its length; thence they diminish towards the last, 

 which equals the length of the exposed part of the fifth. The soft part at its 

 middle equals the height immediately behind the fin ("18) and is much more 

 than twice as great as the length of the last ray (-7). 



The anal fin begins under the penultimate spine, and its soft part is similar 

 to and opposite the corresponding part of the dorsal. The length of the first 

 spine nearly equals that of the first dorsal one (-5), and the second is twice as 

 long (11). 



The caudal fin is emarginated and its lobes rounded; its median rays form 

 •18 of the total length and are a quarter less than the longest ('25). The pec- 

 torals are rounded at the angles and equal ir. length -22 of the total. The 

 ventral fins are inserted a little behind the bases of the pectorals. The spine 

 equals the second anal (-11) and is half as long as the first and longest ray 

 (=■22) and equal to the internal (-ll). 



The scales are arranged at the region of greatest height in fifteen rows(— ] 

 and on the caudal peduncle in seven (—\. There are twenty-six obliquely 



transverse rows, and twenty-one are perforated for the upper part of the lateral 

 line. The scales of the cheeks are in three rows. 



The formula for the fins and scales are as follows : 



D XIII. 12. A. II. 12. C. 5. I. 7. 6. I. 4. P. I. 1. 17. V. I. 5. Scales 

 4 3 

 25—26 L- 1- sup. 20—21. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



The color is greenish, tinged with brassy and with lighter areas in the centres 



of the scales on the sides, which form faint, uninterrupted lines. There are 

 six transverse dorsal bands; the first almost obsolete before the dorsal fin ; the 



second under the third to fifth spine ; the third under sixth to eighth ; the 

 fourth under the tenth to twelfth ; the fifth under the anterior half of the soft 

 portion, and the sixth behind the fin. 



Length from snout to end of median caudal rays (3^) 100 



Body — Greatest height 43, 45^ 



Height behind vertical fins 18 



" of caudal peduncle 15 



Greatest thickness 17 



Head — Length laterally 25 



Height at preopercular margin 30 



" at pupil 25 



" of preorbital at end of jaw 3.] 



" " at highest part 4,] 



Length of snout 9 



Length of operculum 8f 



Height of operculum and suboperculum 20 



Width of interorbital area 9 J 



Eye — Diameter 9 



Dorsal — Origin from snout 27i 



Length of base 39—14' 



Height at first spine 5?, 



" " fifth spine (10)-13' 



" " last spine 8,10 



" " longest ray , 18 



" " last ray 7 



Anal — Origin from snout 57 



Length of base 19 



Height at first spine 5 



" " second spine 11 



" " longest ray ]8 



" " last ray 7r] 



Caudal — Length of median rays 18 



" " longest ray 25 



Pectoral — Length 22 



Ventral — Length of spine II 



" "firstray 22 



Seven specimens of this species, varying between nearly two and four inches 

 were obtained by Mr. Xantus. 



Genus HYPSYPOPS Gill. 



This genus, framed for Glyphidodonte, with elevated preorbital bones and 

 entire teeth, is rather allied to Pomacentriis than to Glyphidodon, the technical 

 character bringing its species in the latter genus, being of less real value than 

 the dentition or development of the suborbital bones. 



HyPSYPOPS DORSALIS Gill. 



The height much exceeds a third (-37) of the extreme length. The head is 

 rather depressed in front of the nape and very steep in front of the eyes ; it 

 forms nearly a quarter (-23) of the total length ; its height at the vertical of 

 the preoperculum much exceeds the length (-28), and that at the pupil is less 

 (•21). The length of the snout equals two-fifths of the latter height (Si), is 

 about a quarter more than the height of the preorbital bone (-6), which Itself 

 is not much less than the diameter of the eye (-7). The preoperculum is per- 

 fectly entire, and the teeth of the jaws truncated. 



1862.] 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The dorsal fio commences above the first scale of the lateral line; its greatest 

 height equals or exceeds a quarter of the length ("26), The caudal has acute 

 lobes, forming more than a quarter (-27) of the length, while the median rays 

 scarcely equal a sixth (-16) of th(3 same. The pectorals and ventrals are 

 nearly equally long and exceed a quarter (-21 — -22) of the length : the latter 

 are inserted immediately behind the former. The dorsal and anal are densely 

 scaly. 



3 2 



D. XII. 13. A. II. 11. Scales 26 . Lat. line 21. 



10 3 



The color of the entire fish is a deep purplish brown, relieved on the back by 

 two blue spots on each side, as in Pomacemirns quadrigutta, (under the fourth spine 

 and under the third or fourth ray,) close behind the dorsal by a transverse 

 linear spot, and on or just above the first scale of the lateral line by another spot. 

 A blue line extends from the snout to the front of the orbit, and a spot exists 

 above before the middle of the orbit. Another blue line crosses the preorbital 

 and passes under the eye. There are also a few other blue dots scattered on 

 the head. 



A single specimen of this species, four inches long, was sent by Mr. Xantas 

 to the Smithsonian Institution. 



Genus POMACENTRUS Lac. 



POMACENTRUS RKCTIFR^NUM Gill. 



The height equals a third (34) of the total length, inclusive of the entire 

 caudal. The head is regularly decurved from the nape and forms nearly a 

 quarter (23) of the total length ; its height at the preopercular margin ex- 

 ceeds the length (24) and is rarely a quarter greater than that of the pupil 

 (■19). The length of the snout exceeds a third (-8) of the head's, is greater 

 than the diameter of the eye (-7). which itself is more than twice as great as 

 the height of the entire preorbital (3) at the angle of the mouth. The pre- 

 operculum is finely dentated and vertical behind. The teeth are entire. 



The dorsal commences above the upper axilla of the pectoral ; the greatest 

 height exceeds a fifth (-21) of the total length, and equals the length of the 

 pectoral (-21). The ventrals are inserted behind the pectorals, and equal a 

 quarter of the length. The caudal forms about a quarter of the extreme length, 

 and the inner rays exceed a sixth ('16) of the same. 



3 2 



D. XII. 16. A. II. 15. Scales 25--. Lat. line 21. 



10 3 



The color is a deep chestnut, dotted with light blue on each scale on the back 

 and tail, and on the sides with a faint crescentiform line, parallel with the 

 border of each scale. The head has two blue lines diverging from the snout 

 and passing over the eyes to each side of the dorsal ; there is an oblique one 

 on the preorbital and also a suborbital line, as well as one below the suborbital 

 chain. Another proceeds backwards from the upper angle of the orbit. A 

 black spot, bordered by blue, is more or less developed behind the dorsal. The 

 dorsal, anal and pectoral are very dark, and the first two dotted with blue. 



There are six specimens in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution. The 

 pattern is similar, bi;t not equally vivid in all. There is no indication of a dor- 

 sal ocellus. 



The following two species were at first supposed to be varieties of one spe- 

 cies of Pomacentrus, but, as there are no gradations, and as they differ slightly 

 in pattern of coloration as well as the presence of a dorsal ocellus, it is impro- 

 bable that such is the case. 



POMACENTRUS FLAVIL.4.TUS Gill. 



This epecies differs from the preceding by the presence of a very distinct 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 140 



ocellus OQ the anterior half of the soft part of the dorsal fin, which also advances 

 downwards as far as the lateral line. The color of the body, below the late- 

 ral line, is yellowish brown, with an indistinct dot on eacli scale; the caudtil, 

 pectoral, ventral and anal fins as well as the dorsal fin behind are also yellow- 

 ish, the external ventral ray and margin of the anal before being darker. 



One specimen, about three inches long, was discovered at Gape St. Lucas by 

 Mr. Xanius and sent to the Smithsonian Institution. 



POMACENTRDS BaIRDII Gill. 



This species has the hinder and lower part of its length colored like the pre- 

 ceding, but there is no trace of an ocellus, and the base of the soft part of 

 the dorsal is blue. The ventral fins are also very light. The blue lines from 

 the snout end over the pupils ; a transverse line, a third of the interorbital area, 

 exists on that area, and behind it are two short parallel longitudinal lines. 

 There are three blue spots on the suborbital chain and one bebind the angle of 

 the mouth. The scales below are not dotted with blue in the middle. 



Two specimens, rather less than an inch long, are in the colUction of the 

 Smithsonian Institution. The preopercular serrature is almost obsolete. 



POMACENTRDS QUADRIGUTTA Gill. 



The present species differs from P. rectifratnum by the greater portion of each 

 scale being blue; the presence of two distant blue spots on the back, one be- 

 low the end of the dorsal fin, and another at the end of the base of the anal ; 

 the color of the head above more like that of P. Bairdii. The vcutrals are dark 

 as in P. rectifrcemnn, edged, like the anal, with blue. 



Many specimens, less than an inch long, were obtained and sent by Mr. Xantus 

 to the Smithsonian Institution. The preopercular serrature is very faint. 



Genus CHROMIS Cuv. 



Furcaria was established by M. Poey for two species of Pomacentroids 

 found along the Cuban coast, which were supposed to be distinguished from 

 all others by seven branchiostegal rays and the unequal teeth. M. Poey has 

 kindly sent to the Smithsonian Institution two specimens of the type of his 

 genus, the Furcaria puncta, and, after a careful examination but without dis- 

 section, I have been unable to count a number so unprecedented and remark- 

 able for a Pomacentroid, and have only discovered five. The name might, how- 

 ever, be retained for the group which differs from the typical species of Chromis 

 or Heliases by the presence of only twelve dorsal spines.* 



Chromis (Furcaria) atrilobata Gill. 



The form is probably nearly similar to that of Furcaria puncta, but the only 

 specimen sent to the Smithsonian Institution by Mr. Xantus is much injured 

 and shrivelled up, although preserved in alcohol. The greatest height is esti- 



* Another type of the Pomacentroids characterized by a band of conical teeth in each 

 jaw is Dancyllus Cuv. {Tetrad rachmum Cantor). An elegant undescribed .tspecies is found 

 at the Sandwich Islands, from which specimens were sent to the Smithsonian Instjiution 

 by Mr. W. H. Pease. It may be called Dascyllua albinella ; it has the form of Duxojllit.i 

 marginaliis Ehr.; its height exceeds half the entire length. The head forms nearly a' 

 quarter of the same. Its forehead before the eye is vertical. The dorsal spine regu- 

 larly decreases from the second lo the last, the second equalling the length of ihc head 

 and about twice as long as the last. The soft pans of the dorsal and anal are arched. 



D. Xir. 16. A. U. 15. 

 5 2 



Scales 27—, -. Lat. line 18—19. 

 12 3 

 ^ The color is dark grayish, wiih a transverse white band descending half way down 

 t'rom the middle of ihe back below the dorsal fin, between its fifth and tenth spines. All 

 the fins, except the pectorals, are very dark. 



1862,] 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



mated to have been about three-tenths of the extreme length, inclusive of the 

 Cauda/ lobes ; that at the origin of the anal tin equals a quarter of the length. 

 The height behind the dorsal and anal exceeds an eighth (-IS) of the total 

 length, as well as the length (behind it) of the caudal peduncle, while the 

 least height of the latter equals an eleventh (-9) of the length. 



The head forms more than a fifth ("212) of the extreme length, and is 

 longer than high ; the height at the upper angle of the preoperculum -IQ, and 

 that at the pupil -17 of the same length. The diameter of the eye is contained 

 three and a half times (-6) in the head's length, equals the snout and is twice 

 as great as the height of the very oblique preorbital. The forehead and snout 

 above are nearly rectilinear, and the former between the eyes is transversely 

 arched and as wide as the diameter of the eye. The preoperculum is oblique 

 behind and scarcely emarginated at its lower half, has its angle rounded and 

 its inferior margin slightly ascending. The mouth is small and very oblique. 

 The teeth are conic and curved, continued to the angles of the mouth and 

 larger in front ; behind is a transverse row of smaller ones. 



The dorsal fin commences above the bases of the ventrals ; its spinous por- 

 tion is rather elevated, and its last spines rather shorter than the preceding ; 

 its base much exceeds a quarter ('28) of the length ; that of the soft nearly 

 equals a seventh (-14) of the length ; at its middle the height nearly equals an 

 eighth (-13), and behind a tenth ( 10) of the length. 



The anal, like that of Furcaria punciu, has its second spine as long as the 

 succeeding rays, which are nearly unifornn or even slightly increase towards 

 the last.* 



The caudal forms more than a quarter ("27) of the extreme length, the lobes, 

 especially the upper, being prolonged and pointed, while the median rays only 

 equal a tenth (10) of the length. 



The pectorals are rather long (-18) and bluntly angulated. The ventrals 

 have the first ray filiform and equal to the pectorals ; its base is behind that of 

 the pectorals. 



The scales have been mostly rubbed off in the single specimen in the mu- 

 seum. Those oa the cheeks are triserial. 

 1 



D. XII. 11-. A. IF. 12. 

 1 4 



Scales 32—33—. Lat, line sup. 21, (inf. 17 !) 

 10 



The color is dark green. The dorsal blackish, except the hinder portion, 

 (last four or five rays.) which is colorless. The caudal has its margins above 

 and below black. 



A single specimen was sent to the Institution by Mr. Xantus. It is in poor 

 condition and slightly less than four inches long. 



Genus GLYPHIDODON Lac. 

 Glyphidodon Tkoschelii Gill. 



The form is similar to that of GJyphiihxlon saxaiilis (Lac.) and its allies. The 

 height equals half the length, exclusive of the caudal. The head forms a third 

 of the same length and is as long as it is high close behind the eyes. The eye 

 has a diameter nearly equal to a third of the head's length, is separated by a 

 diameter from the muzzle, and the same distance from its fellow. The inter- 

 orbital area is transversely convex. The preorbital bone is nearly parallel 

 with the straight suborbitals. The preoperculum has a vertical posterior and 

 horizontal inferior border, and its angle is obtuse or rounded. 



The dorsal begins over the base of the lower rays of the pectorals. Thepec- 



* Furcaria cyanea is represented by Poey with the anal acuminate at the middle like the 

 dorsal. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 161 



torals and ventrals are nearly equal and almost as long as the head. The 

 ventrals are inserted nearly as far back as the vertical of I'ae third dorsal spine. 

 The entire caudal equals the length of the head ; the median rays equal about 

 two-thirds of the longest, 



D. XIII. 12. A. II. 13. 

 4 3 



Scales 25—, -. L. I. 20. 

 10 3 



The color is light green or purplish; five rather narrow vertical bands cross 

 the body; the first commences under or close before the front of the dorsal ; 

 the second, under the space between the third and fifth spine; the third, between 

 the seventh and ninth; the /our^A, under the thirteenth spine, and the. ;«yi/t is 

 close bf-hind the dorsal and anal. The fins are immaculate, the external por- 

 tions of the ventrals darker. 



This species is apparently very common at Cape St. Lucas, Mr. Xanlus having 

 sent to the Smithsonian Institution about one hundred specimens, most of which 

 are, however, very young; the largest are three or four inches long. 



I dedicate the species to Dr. Troschel, who, by his annu il reports on herpe- 

 tology, ichthyology and malacology, as well as by the original memoirs pub- 

 lished by bim alone and in conjunction with the great J. .Miiller, has much 

 contributed to the advancement of those departments of science. 



On some new and little known American ANURA. 



BY E. D, COPE. 



Hylodes d i m i d i a t u s . 



Form ranine. Head not broader than body, muzzle rather acute, depressed 

 at the tip. Nostrils lateral. Eye of moderate size, twice the extent of the 

 round tympanic membrane. Internal nares small, less than ostia pharyngea; 

 vomerine teeth posterior to them, in two rather abruptly curved series : their 

 inner extremities directed backwards, widely separated, their outer reaching 

 the maxillary margin. Tongue oval, without posterior notch. Skin smooth 

 above and below, except upon the posterior femoral region. A narrow dermal fold 

 from the superciliary region nearly to the groin. Posterior lateral region rugulose. 

 Digital pallettes well developed : no rudimentary membrane between posterior 

 digits. Two metatarsal tubercles, that at the base of the least digit elongate ; 

 sole smooth. Palm tuberculous, two metacarpal warts, no tarsal dermal fold. 

 Humerus three-fourths the length of tarsus, which is half as long as the tibia, 

 which is longer than the femur. Length of head and bodj' 1 in. 9 1. Ante- 

 brachium 4.^ 1. Tarsus and longest digit 1 in. 3 1. Hinder extremity, from 

 groin, 2 in. 9 1. 



Above brownish or pinkish gray, beneath yellowish. A black band passes 

 from the end of the muzzle across the tympanic disc, beneath the lateral dermal 

 fold, to about the middle of the side. A yellowish line on superior labial 

 margin, indistinct anteriorly. A black, white-bordered spot on the crural 

 region, sometimes one on each side of the end of the coccyx. Inner faces of 

 extremities marbled ; superior surfaces cross-banded. A very narrow white 

 line extends from the end of the muzzle to the terminal coccygeal region. 

 Some white spots on the posterior femoral surface. 



Habitat.— E&%\.(txn Cuba. Mus. Smithsonian (No. 5099) Mr. Wright ColL 

 Mus. Acad. Philada. 



This species exhibits much resemblance to Dr. Giinther's Cystignathus 

 albilabris in external form. 



Hylodes 1 e n t u s . 

 Form stout, depressed ; posterior extremities short. Head not so wide as 



1861.] 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the body; muzzle prominent, rounded. Tympanic disc round, half the size of 

 the eye. Nostrils lateral. Internal nares large, equal to ostia of eustachian 

 tubes. Behind these are placed the two curved series of vomerine teeth, which 

 extend nearly from the maxillary wall ; their inner extremities are directed 

 backwards, and are separated by a slight interval. Tongue elongate oval, 

 entire. Without granulations above, below, or upon the sides. Pallettes 

 moderately developed. Palms tuberculous; three warts in the posterior series, 

 of which the median is much the largest. Soles with small tubercles, two 

 small posterior metatarsals, the inner elongate, acute. Heel reaching orbit, 

 when directed forward. Length of head and body 1 in. 6 1. Hinder ex- 

 tremity 1 in. 11 1. Tarsus, to end of digit, 1 in. 1 1. Antebrachium 4^ 1. 



Beneath whitish, immaculate. Above dark chestnut, a light band on each 

 side from posterior margin of the orbit to crural region ; between these, on the 

 vertex, the sides and extremities, the ground is coarsely marbled with whitish 

 or yellowish. 



Habitat. — St. Thomas. Mus. Smithsonian. RUse Coll. 



This species differs from its near ally, the martinicensis, in the greater 

 length of the series of vomerine teeth and in coloration. The posterior ex- 

 tremities are much shorter than in the d i m i d i a t u s. 



Hylodes auriculatus. 



Size small: head as wide as, or wider than, the body. Muzzle rounded. 

 Nostrils lateral. Tympanic disc circular, one-fourth the size of the eye. 

 Tongue elongate, obcordate, with a small emargination. Vomerine teeth in 

 two oblique series, which commence opposite the inner margin of the posterior 

 nares, and converge posteriorly, though the extremities are widely removed. 

 Above sparsely rugose; belly and femora beneath, granulate. Digital pallettes 

 well developed. Anterior extremity reaching to groin. Heel nearly to end 

 of the muzzle. Total length 10 1. Hinder extremity 1 in. 3 1. 



Above light gray, loreal region black; a black line descends from orbit to 

 near the shoulder, which crosses the upper part of the tympanum. A blackish 

 band between the eyes, a chevron-shaped one between the seapulte. Hinder 

 extremities dark, shaded on their posterior faces. Beneath yellowish, mental 

 and lower labial region varied with brown. 



Habitat. — Eastern Cuba. Mus. Smithsonian, (No. 5207.) Philadelphia 

 Academy. 



This species is allied to H. martinicensis, but has a broader head, 

 longer extremities, and rougher skin : it is also much smaller. 



Hylodes cuneatus. 



Hyliform: head large, broader than the body. Muzzle elongate, acute. 

 Tympanic disc round, half the size of the eye. Internal nares smaller than 

 eustachian ostia; the latter are transverse. Vomerine teeth in two curved 

 series, which begin opposite, and much behind the external border of the in- 

 ternal nares, and converge posteriorly, leaving an interval. Tongue elongate 

 oval, rounded posteriorly, slightly nicked. Skin of the superior surfaces, ex- 

 cept that of the muzzle, granulated; beneath everywhere smooth. A slight 

 dermal fold extends from the end of the muzzle to the end of the coccyx, and 

 another, very delicate, commences behind each orbit, and descends upon the 

 side, then ascends towards the iliac region. Palm tubercular, two large meta- 

 carpal tubercles. Sole smooth, two metatarsal warts, the external not promi- 

 nent. Heel extending nearly to extremity of muzzle. Length of head and 

 body 1 in. 7 1. Hinder extremity 2 in. G 1. Width of posterior gular re- 

 gion 7 1. 



Above blackish gray. Muzzle lighter as far as the abrupt commencement of 

 the darker between the eyes. A light line, from anterior border of orbit to 

 labial commissure, and one from the posterior border to the tympanum. Alight 

 band from each supercilium to the coccygeal region. Extremities indistinctly 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



banded with brown. Beneath whitish, very minutely punctulaerd with brown, 

 except upon the abdomen. F«r., almost entirely black : the head a little nar- 

 rower. 

 Habitat.— Eastern Cuba. Mus. Smithsonian, (Xo. 5202, var. ,5202,^.) 



Hylodes planirostris. 



Head as wide as, or wider, than the body, longer than broad; the lateral 

 outlines curved ; the end of the muzzle abruptly truncated. Ostia pharyngea 

 oval. Vomerine teeth in two long curved series, which commence behind 

 and opposite to the external border of inner nares ; they are separated by 

 a considerable space medially. Tongue elongate, oval, slightly nicked. A 

 subgular vocal sack. Tympanum half the size of the eye. Skin smooth above 

 and below; sides rugose. Heel reaching the orbit. Digital pallettes small. ' 

 Two metacarpal, two metatarsal tubercles. Brachium longer than or equal to 

 ante-brachium. Length of head and body 111. Muzzle, to canthus oris, 4 1. 

 Hinder extremity 1 in. 9 1. 



General color reddish brown. The loreal region, a band between the eyes, 

 one above the tympanum, and some dorsal spots, darker. Beneath light 

 brownish. 



Habitat. — New Providence Island, Bahamas. Mus. Salem. From Frederick 

 Putnam, Esq. 



Hylodes hallowellii. 



Head and body rather elongate. Muzzle thick, prominent. Canthus ros- 

 tralis obsolete. Tympanic disc half the size of the eye. Vomerine teeth much 

 behind the internal nares, in two short, transverse, slightly curved series. 

 Tongue thick, elongate, oval, entire. Ostia pharyngea round, a little larger 

 than internal nares. Skin of the under surfaces smooth; sides rugulose. with 

 a few tubercles ; a few rugosities on the posterior dorsal region, and some folds 

 upon its borders. A strong fold from the orbit above and behind the tympanum. 

 Numerous delicate folds upon the anterior face of the femur; a posterior tarsal 

 fold. Palm smooth, a large median metacarpal tubercle, and a very prominent 

 elongate one on the base of the inner digit. A rudimentary web between all 

 the toes of the hinder extremity ; the metacarpal tubercles two, small, the 

 internal narrow. Femora very stout. Heel extending to the orbit. Length of 

 head and body 1 in. 6 1. Width of head at canthus oris 6 1. Length of hinder 

 extremit}- 2 in. 3 1. 



Above grayish brown, with a reddish tinge. A light band between the eyes, 

 from which one descends on the end of the muzzle to the labial border. A 

 light line from the nostril to the labial border, two from the anterior border of 

 the orbit, and one from the posterior. A dark shade upon the occiput. Chin, 

 thorax, sides and inner borders of extremities marbled with brown. Two brown 

 bands on the tibia ; one broad and several narrow bands on the femur. 



Habitat. — Near Carthagena, New Granada. Mus. Smithsonian, (No. 4343.) 

 From Lieut. Michler's Expedition. 



A near ally of H. fitzingerii Schmidt, with which it ought, perhaps, to 

 be removed from this genus. 



It is dedicated to the memory of the late Dr. Edward Hallowell, whom the 

 author holds in grateful and respectful recollection. 



The genus Hylodes, as understood by Dumeril, embraces twenty-three 

 species, including those here described. They naturally associate themselves 

 round several types, forming the following groups. 1. Craugastor Cope. Toes 

 very slightly webbed. Vomerine teeth in two short, transverse series behind 

 the internal nares. Skin of the abdomen smooth. H. hallowellii and 

 fitzingerii. 2. Hylodes Fitz. Toes entirely free. Vomerine teeth in two 

 short, oblique series behind the internal nares. Skin of the belly (t^-pically, 

 granular. H. martinicensis, auriculatns, ?conspicillatus) 

 ?parvus (belly smooth.) 3. Lithodytes /'i^z. Toes free. Vomerine teeth in 



1862.] 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



two, often elongate, curved series behind Ihe posterior nares. Skin of abdo- 

 men smooth. H. lineatus, lentus, cuneatus, luteolus, planiros- 

 tris, dimidiatus. This group connects with Hylodes proper through H. 

 cuneatus. 4. Euhyas Fitz. Toes free. Vomerine teeth in two elongate 

 angularly curved series, which are medially directed posteriorly and in contact 

 forming a zigzag line behind the anterior nares. Abdomen smooth or granular 

 H. ricordii, oxyrhynchus. The dentition of this group is nearly ap 

 proacbed by that of H. (Lithodytes) lentus. 5. Batrachyla jSe^Z. Toes free 

 Vomerine teeth in two straight oblique groups between the posterior nares 

 Abdomen smooth: a. Tympanum round. Bairachyla. H. leptopus, Ion 

 g i p e s. h. Tympanum vertically elliptic. Halophila Gird. H. li e r o s, 

 ^cbryseus,* dorsalis, vitianus, corrugatus. 



Hylodes laticeps is perhaps the type of a distinct genus. Ranacapiio 

 Leconte bears some resemblance to it. 



Phyllobates 1 i m b a t u s . 



Size very small ; form ranine. Head not wider than the body. Muzzle 

 rather acute. Skin smooth below, slightly granular upon the lateral, gluteal 

 and occipital regions. Tympanic disc two-thirds the size of the orbit. 

 Nostril lateral, its position one-third the distance from the muzzle to the orbit. 

 Internal nares much smaller than ostia pharyngea. Tongue elongate, sub- 

 cylindrical, entire. Palms and soles granular ; outer metatarsal tubercle very 

 small. A delicate dermal fold on the median line of the back. Heel scarcely 

 reaching the orbit. Length of head and body 5J 1. Hinder extremity 8 1. 



Above, chestnut. A white line extends from the end of the muzzle to the 

 knee joint; beneath this a broad, black band extends to the same position. 

 Upper surfaces of posterior extremities and anal region blackish brown. Under 

 surfaces and anterior extremities yellowish, the hinder limbs and sides of 

 abdomen spotted with brown. A dark line on humerus. Upper lip yellow. 



Habitat. — Eastern Cuba. Mus. Smithsonian, (No. 520G.) Mr. Chas. Wright's 

 Coll. Acad. Philada. 



This is, perhaps, the smallest frog known, and is a very prettily marked one. 

 Suspicions of immaturity have been removed by careful examination of the 

 six specimens at our disposal. 



Hyla andersonii Baird, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1854, p. 61. 



In proportions and general appearance similar to the Hyla arborea ol 

 Europe. The skin of the upper surface of the body and extremities is smooth, 

 minutely corrugated ; that of the throat, belly, and under surfaces of the femora, 

 is areolated. A cutaneous fold across the breast, and one across the throat. 

 Tympanum about one-third the size of the eye. Tongue broad, slightly 

 emarginate. Vomerine teeth in two oblique series between the internal nares, 

 each directed inward and backward. 



Coloration in life. The whole upper surface a rather deep pea green, paler 

 upon the sides and the margin of the upper lip. A narrow band of purplish 

 brown commences at the external nares, passes through the eye and including 

 the tympanum, loses its inferior border a little beyond the insertion of the 

 humerus. The color becomes paler upon the sides, where it is of an ashy 

 mulberry tint, and extends as far as the origin of the femur. Anterior to this 

 jjoint it is margined below by large irregular spots of a beautiful saffron, which 

 are continued upon the anterior and posterior surfaces of the femur, and the 

 wliole inferior surface of the tibia, upon a ground of a paler shade of the same 

 color. The supero-anterior surface of the tarsus, the three inner toes and the 

 webs of the external, — also a small area behind tlie humerus, the. posterior 

 surface of the latter, the infero-anterior face of the fore-arm and the inner 



*Halophila vitiensis Gir., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Fhila. 1853, Oct nee. H. vitianuB 

 Dum., Ann. Sci. Nai. 1853, June, 1853. 



[March, 




NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



finger, are tinted and spotted in the same manner. Tlie superior surfaces of 

 tbe femur, tibia, humerus and fore-arm, are of the same color as the back, 

 that of tbe humerus separated from the green of the jaws by an isthmus of the 

 purplish shade, and that of the tibia separated anteriorly from tbe saffron of 

 its lower surface by a band of mulberry. The green of the back and ex- 

 tremities ij everywhere margined with pure white, except posteriorly on the 

 femur and tibia, and anteriorly on the foimer, where saffron takes its place. 

 The green crosses the rictus and forms an oval spot upon each side of the 

 throat. The borders of the latter and the chin are tinged with mulberry. 

 Beneath whitish flesh color. The exposed surfaces of the anterior and posterior 

 extremities, where not green, are of a shade intermediate between mulberry and 

 chocolate. 



Length of head and body 1 in. 8 1. Femur 8 1. Tibia 9 1. Tarsus and foot, 

 to the end of the longest toe, 12^ 1. 



The following are the differences which I discover upon a comparison of this 

 species with many specimens of the Hyla arborea of Europe. The head is 

 relatively broader and more obtuse. The vomerine teeth are in two oblique 

 lines, not in symmetrical fasciculi. In coloration we notice, first, the arborea 

 is entirely destitute of the saffron spots and shades so distinct in the ander- 

 sonii. Second, the carpus and tarsus of the latter are destitute of any green 

 shade or band so usual in the arborea. Third, the green is bordered with 

 white, not yellow, and the green of the extremities is much more distinctly 

 bordered than in the arborea. Fourth, the lateral band, and that on the 

 anterior face of the tibia, is of an impure mulberry shade, instead of brown 

 or greenish. 



I am indebted to Dr. Jos. Leidy for a beautiful specimen of this frog. It was 

 found in a cedar swamp, near the town of Jackson, in New Jersey, sixteen 

 miles east of Philadelphia. Without careful examination of the specimen, he 

 supposed it to be the viridis of the Southern States, from its great re- 

 semblance to that species, and presented it as such, at the meeting of the 

 Academy the same evening. (Vid. Proc. Acad, for July, p. 305 ) At the same 

 time Baltimore was given as its northern limit upon the authority of Dr. Uhler 

 of that place. As Dr. Holbrook gives lat. 33° as the most northern habitat 

 known to him, it would be interesting to receive specimens from Baltimore, as 

 there is a possibility of the supposed viridis being the andersonii. 

 Lysapsus 1 i m e 1 1 u m.* 



Char. gen. — Family Hylidae of Giinther. Anterior extremities free. Interior 

 digit opposite the three external. Proximal phalanx of external, posterior 

 digit entirely free from that of the second ; all the digits broadly palmate. 

 Pallettes slightly developed. Vomerine teeth in two fasciculi. Tongue broad, 

 slightly free, nearly entire. Skin rugose above, not smooth below. 



This genus is related to Litoria, but differs from it, and from most, if not all, 

 other genera of Opisthoglossa p la ty d ac ty la, in the freedom of the basal 

 phalanx of the external digit. 



Char, specif. — Head as wide as the body. Muzzle acute, with rounded out- 

 lines. Canthus rostralis none. Nostrils vertical. Tympanic disc half the size 

 of the eye. Internal nares smaller than ostia pharyngea tubarum eustachii. 

 Vomerine teeth in two well-separated fasciculi, near to and behind the nares. 

 Tongue very broad, subtriaugular, obtusely emarginate and slightly free 

 posteriorly. Inferior surface of limbs smooth, of bodj' areolate or transversely 

 plicate, except on the middle of the thorax. Upper surfaces as far as interior 

 orbital region, minutely and firmly rugose, resembling shagreen. Palms not 

 tubercular; basal phalanges thickened. Hinder extremities very long, knee 

 reaching nearly to tympanum. Palm smooth, a small acute cuneiform tubercle 

 at the base of the internal digit. External digit longer than the third. 



1862.] 



*Lima, a file, shagreen. 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Palmation extending to the pallettes. No dermal fold?, except on the posterior 

 face of tarsus. Humerus shorter than antebrachium ; tarsus less than half the 

 length of tibia. Length of head and body 9 1. Hinder extremities IG 1. 



Above dark reddish brown, a dark spot on the occiput. Two narrow yel- 

 lowish lines on each side, one from the orbit, one from the tympanum. A 

 light line from the orbit to the angle of the mouth. Two broad oblique bands 

 across the femur, three from the tibia. A brown band extends from one 

 popliteal region to the other, without interruption, on the (?) perinaeum. Be- 

 neath pale rusty ; small brown spots on lower labial region. 



Habitat. — Paraguay. Taken on river. Mus. Smithsonian, 



(No. 5494.) 



This species has probably the habits of Rana. It evidently possesses great 

 power in the hinder extremities. The formation of these, and of the anterior 

 members, remind us of Pseudis. 



Cystignathus podicipinus. 



Tympanum distinct, half the size of the eye. Posterior digits with margins 

 as wide as a phalanx, which unite at their bases, forming a slight web. A 

 tarsal fold continuous with that of the internal digit, except where interrupted 

 by a spur-like tubercle. Tarsus half as long as tibiae. Anterior digits free; 

 first digit longer than the second and fourth ; an elongate tubercle at its base; 

 an oval median palmar tubercle; inferior articular tubercles moderate. Uead 

 narrow. Muzzle rounded, a little prominent. Tongue oval, subemarginate. 

 Vomerine teeth in two short, separate rows, much behind, and within the 

 marginal line of the posterior nares. Skin smooth above, except a few minute 

 warts on the coccygeal region. Lateral and postanal region verrucose. Total 

 length of head and body 21 1. Anterior extremity 10 1. Posterior extremity 

 2 in. 3 1. Foot and tarsus 14 1. 



Above brown, an elongate, darker triangular spot between the eyes. A yel- 

 lowish line extends beneath the eye to the angle of the mouth. Femora indis- 

 tinctly banded, posteriorly marbled with blackish. Tibise with three brown 

 bands. Beneath yellowish brown, with numerous yellow spots. 



Habitat. — Paraguay. Mus. Smithsonian, (Xo. 5831.) Philada. Acad. 



This species differs from the other Cystignathi, with margined toes and 

 vomerine teeth behind the nares, in having the latter in straight series, instead 

 of curved. It differs from C. ocellatus and many species with simple 

 digits, in wanting the discoidal folding of the thoracic and abdominal in- 

 tegument. 



Cystignathus poecilochilus. 



Tympanum half the size of the eye. Head rather depressed. Muzzle short, 

 not prominent. Tongue oval, subemarginate posteriorly. Vomerine teeth in 

 two well-separated curved series behind the internal nares, the outer ex- 

 tremities of the former on a line with the middle of the latter. A pectoral, 

 lateral, abdominal fold, enclosing the thoracic integument, as a disc. A dermal 

 fold from the posterior border of each orbit to the groin. The heel extended 

 reaches the nostril. Toes not margined, slightly webbed at the base ; their 

 subarticular knobs very prominent. Sole smooth. Internal anterior digit 

 shorter than the third, and longer than the fourth. A large palmar tubercle ; 

 an elongate one at the base of the internnl digit. Length of head and body 

 1 in. 10 1. Anterior extremity- 10 1. Hinder extremities 2 in. 9 1. 



Color of surperior surfaces ches'nut brown; the sides rather darker, deli- 

 cately marbled next to the pure white abdomen. 



A brown band on the extremity of each canthus rostrlais reaching the labial 

 commissure ; another beneath the anterior part of the orbit. Lips marbled 

 with white and brownish. A narrow brown band above and behind the tym- 

 panum. Some light-bordered brown spots on the anterior face of the femur 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILA.DELPHIA. 167 



and posterior face of the tibia. A light line on the posterior face of each 

 femur. 



Habitat. — Near Turbo, New Granada. Mus. Smithsonian, (No. 434Y.) Acad., 

 Philadelphia. 



The fewness of the dermal plicae, the less prominence of the muzzle, and 

 the want of spots on the back, separate this species from the f use u s. In 

 tffiniatus there are no folds, and the vomerine teeth are in fasciculi. 



Pseudacris feriarum. JJeZoeceics/enarwmBaird, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1854, p. 61. 

 The differences between Pseudacris Fitz and Heloeceies Baird, do not seem 

 obvious. The present species was described from specimens found near 

 Carlisle, Penna. I have found it abundant near Gloucester, New Jersey, and 

 in the valley of Trough Creek, in the southern part of Huntingdon Co., Pa. 



Phrynocerns testudiniceps. 



Top of the head plane, the profile of the muzzle descending from the nasal 

 process of the frontal bone at an obtuse angle. Space between the orbits 

 slightly concave, wider than the diameter of the orbit. Temporal ridge not 

 prominent, Dermo-ossification roofing over the temporal fossae, as in Spix's 

 figure of Ranascutata, but not enclosing the tympHnum posteriorly or 

 inferiorly. Its posterior border is nuchal, continuous, concave ; it is further 

 behind the orbit than the end of the muzzle is anterior to the latter. Tym- 

 panum vertically oval, longest diameter equal to the length of the third phalanx 

 of the third anterior digit. Vomerine teeth in separate transverse series ante- 

 rior to the inner margin of the internal nares. Anterior digits free; posterior 

 fully webbed, except the extent of the last two phalanges of the median. 



Skin (in a stuffed specimen) without folds, but with obtuse warts. Length 

 of head and body 7 in. Head 1 in. 9 1. Tarsus and longest toe 3 in. 9 1. 

 Breadth of jaws on the gular region, 2 in. 9 1. 



Above bright yellowish and brownish green, marbled with black. Sides and 

 inferior surfaces of extremities without marbling. Subanal region blackish, 

 spotted with yellow. Belly and gular region whitish, a few black vermicula- 

 tions on the latter. 



Habitat. — Panama. Mus. Academy, Philadelphia. Lieut. Fields. 



Phrynocerns* appears to be a name applicable to the Ranid genus, which 

 differs from Ceratophrys, in wanting a dorsal dermo-osseous shield. Whether 

 the P. testudiniceps truly belongs to it, is yet uncertain. It is remarka- 

 ble in the relatively small head, plane profile, and anterior position of orbits. 



Bafo hasmatiticus. 



Form slender. No bony ridges on the superior surface of the head. Muzzle 

 short, high, angular; canthus rostralis a sharply-defined right angle, con- 

 tinuous with a fold on the eyelid, the paratoid gland, and the side nearly to 

 the groin. Nostrils latero-vertical. Mouth large, its commissure directed ob- 

 liquely downward. Tongue elongate, oval, extensively free. Ostia pharyngea 

 smaller than internal nares. Tympanic disc vertical, elliptic, one-fourth the 

 extent of the eye. Paratoid gland lateral, smooth, elongate, angular externally. 

 Anterior extremities slender, reaching beyond the posterior fice of the femur. 

 Palmar tubercles few, one large, oval, median. Hinder extremities slender : 

 heel reaching to the orbit. Sole smooth ; three metatarsal tubercles all 

 slightly developed, especially the median. Palmure of the toes slight. Skin 

 everywhere smooth, except a few granulations on the occiput. Length of head 

 and body 1 in. 6 1. Hinder extremities 1 in. 10 1. 



Above fawn brown, tinged with pink. Sides of the head and body, beneath 

 the lateral fold, red-brown, brighter posteriorly. A pale spot anterior to and 

 beneath the eye. Two black, white-bordered spots on the interscapular region, 

 arranged en chevron ; two similar sacral spots. Small spots on the femur, 



*BibroD, Tschudi, Classif. der Batrachier, p. 44. 



1862.] 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and larger ones near the middle of the tibiae, black, white-bordered. Ex- 

 tremities shaded with pink. Belly and gular region pinkish brown. Digits 

 tipped with pink. 



Var. lachrymans. Skin minutely glandular above, lateral fold strong, 

 extending to the groin. Above pink, without dorsal spots. Spots on the tibiae 

 not white-bordered. A pink spot beneath and in front of the eye. Gular 

 region yellowish. 



Habitat. — Region of the Truando, New Granada. Mus. Smithsonian, 

 (No. 4344.) Acad. Philada. 



This curious toad is further removed from the Bufo vulgaris than the 

 types of many genera are from each other, but it is difiBcult to seize upon 

 special characters upon which to base a generic diagnosis, without further in- 

 vestigation. Its general form is similar to that of B. gr a c i 1 i s Gird. It is in 

 some degree allied to Otilophus margaritifer, but, besides wanting the 

 cranial crests, the spines of the dorsal vertebra are not developed in the same 

 manner. 



Bufo p 1 i t n s. 



Head without any osseous ridges ; canthus rostralis none, profile of muzzle 

 gradually descending nearly to the lip. Emargination of the latter broad. 

 Nostrils transverse, vertical. Skin of the whole body smooth, shining, with- 

 out rugosities or spines ; abdomen areolated, most coarsely posteriorly. Ex- 

 tremities stout, toes iViWy webbed, soles smooth, without tubercles except that 

 formed by the first cuneiform bone, which is very prominent, oblique, conic, 

 yellow, not brown tipped. A tarsal ridge, no fold. Fingers free ; palm smooth, 

 a large indistinct median callosity ; a tubercle at the base of the thumb. 

 Tympanum one-fourth the size of the eye, narrowed above ; paratoid imme- 

 diately above it, oval, moderate. A series of flat glands on each side of the back 

 symmetrically arranged. Glands also on the superior surfaces of the humerus, 

 antebrachium, femur and tibia: three on the last remarkably large. Length of 

 muzzle to sternum 7 1. ; sternum to vent 1 in. 1 1. : anterior extremity 1 in. 10 1. ; 

 posterior extremity 3 in. Above olive brown, the glands bordered with deep 

 brown. Inner faces of the extremities straw colored with large browu spots. 

 Beneath bright yellow with variously inosculating black bands. Palms and 

 soles slate color. 



This curious toad resembles the B. 1 e s c h e n a u 1 1 ii D. and B., from 

 Guiana, in some respects, but differs in many points — as the round canthus 

 rostrales, palmated toes, nnd color. It may be related to B. tri folium 

 Tsch., but the characters of that species are little known. B. p o 1 it u s has 

 been taken near Greytown, Nicaragua, by Dr. Caldwell (coll. No. 191) and sent 

 to the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution, (No. 5600.) 



Fifty-nine species of toads of the genus Bufo have been described, including 

 those of the present article. 



Bufo c on ife r u s. 



Muzzle prominent, its superior outline only sloping from the concavity of the 

 ridge of the canthus rostralis. This is very prominent, and forms two parallel 

 ridges on the upper surface of the muzzle. It unites with the supraorbital 

 ridge a distance anterior to the orbit, from which angle a strong ridge descends 

 in front of the eye. Supraorbital ridges perfectly straight, a little longer thaa 

 their distance apart anteriorly. They diverge slightly posteriorly, where each 

 sends off a strong ridge two-thirds its length, slightly directed inward. A strong 

 postorbital ridge, from which a short prominent supratympanic takes its origin. 

 Tympanum distinct, half the size of the eye. Eustachian ostia as large as pos- 

 terior nares. Tongue very elongate, widened and rounded posteriorly, free for 

 one-third its length. Anterior extremity slender, the distal end of antebra- 

 chium reaching the femur at the groin. Palm smooth, one large flat median 

 metacarpal tubercle; one narrow elongate on inner border of the base of the 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



internal digit. Fourth digit longer than second. Hinder extremity elongate, 

 no tarsal fold ; the digital web extensive, very repand : sole smooth. Two 

 large flat oval metatarsal tubercles, the internal marginal. Skin of under 

 surfaces granular, spiunlose on the thorax. Extremities with acute tubercles 

 above. Dorsal region with obtuse tubercles. Numerous elongate conic warts 

 on the sides, largest on a fold from the paratoid gland to the groin; such are 

 also found beneath it anteriorly, and upon the angle of the jaws. The para- 

 toid gland is lateral and very small, — not more than half the extent of the 

 upper eyelid — and is studded with conic warts. Above and behind it is a deep 

 depression. Length of head and body three inches ; breadth across gular re- 

 gion 1 in. 1 line. Length of posterior extremity (along anterior face.) 4 inches. 



Above brownish gray with a few large dark-brown spots, which do not in- 

 terrupt a median line. Extremities dark spotted : a light band between the 

 eyes, and one from the eye to the angle of the mouth. 



HabUat. — Turbo region, New Grauada. Mus. Smithsonian, (No. 4335.) Dis- 

 covered by Mr. Arthur Schott, of Lieut. Michler's Expedition. 



This species is allied to various others of the section of the genus character- 

 ized by the presence of an occipital process to the supraorbital ridge; which 

 embraces in America, Bufones lentiginosus, ocellatus, nebulifer, 

 dorbignyi, veraguensis, and perhaps sternosignatus. It nearly 

 approaches the veraguensis Schmidt.hnt differs, first, in the distinctness 

 of the tympanum and large ostia pharyngea ; second, in the very small para- 

 toid gland ; third, in the absence of ridge from lower margin of eye towards 

 paratoid ; fourth, in the less freedom of the tongue. In nebulifer the front 

 is more declive, the canthus rostrales less concave, the paratoids larger, the 

 conical warts absent, the soles and palms tuberculous. 



April \st, 1862. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-three members present. 



A paper was presented for publication entitled 



Synopsis of the North American Forms of Colymbidje, and Podo- 

 cipidae, by Elliott Coues, which was referred to a Committee. 



Mr. Warner made some remarks on the resemblance existing be- 

 tween organic forms and certain figures produced by optical, acoustic 

 and electrical experiments; also, on the relations existing between 

 these forms and figures and certain mathematical lines mentioned in a 

 pamphlet on organic marphology, published by him. 



April Sth, 1862. 



Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Twenty-three members present. 

 A paper was presented for publication entitled 



Descriptions of certain species of diurnal Lepidoptera, etc., by Wm. 

 H. Edwards, which was referred to a Committee. 



Dr. Slack called the attention of the members to a colored cast of the head of 

 a gorilla, which he characterized as a new species under the name of Gorilla 

 1862.] 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



castaneiceps. The principal external specific character is, that upon the top 

 of the head there exists a circular patch of reddish hairs ; the hairs covering the 

 belly, in the original specimen, were thick and long, and the hairs of the fore- 

 arm were retroverted j the skull presents important difiFerences from that of 

 the ordinary gorilla. 



April Ibth, 1862. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-nine members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



On the Classification and Synonymy of recent species of Pho- 

 ladidge, by George W. Tryon, Jr. 



Description of a new genus (Trypanostoma) of the family Melanidae, 

 and of forty-five new species, by Isaac Lea. 



On Neosorex albigenis, and on Lacerta echinata and Tiliqua dura, 

 by E. D. Cope. 



Which were severally referred to Committees. 



April 22d, 1862. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Forty members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



Descriptions of two new species of Yespertilionidae, by Harrison 

 Allen, M. D. 



Catalogue of North American Mollusca in the collection of the Acade- 

 my, by W. G. Binney, and G. W. Tryon, Jr. 



On a New Genus of Fishes allied to Aulorhyncus, etc. ; Remarks on 

 the relations of the Genera and other groups of Cuban Fishes ; and 

 Catalogue of the Fishes of Lower California, in the Museum of the 

 Smithsonian Institution, by Theodore Gill. 



Description of ten new species of L^nionidaj, etc., and Descriptions 

 of two new species of Exotic Uniones, etc., by Isaac Lea. 



Contributions to Neotropical Saurology, by E. D. Cope. 



Which were severally referred to Committees. 



April 2dth, 1862. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-three members present. 



Dr. Leidy presented a paper entitled 



Notes upon the Descriptions of new plants from Texas, by. S. E. 

 Buckley, etc., by Asa Gray, which was referred to a Committee. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published in the Proceedings. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



Notes upon the "Description of New Plants from Texas, by S. B. Buckley," 

 published in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia, Dec. 1861 and Jan. 1862. 



BY ASA GRAY. 



Having for manv years past taken a prominent part in the study of Texan 

 botany, as made known by the ample collections of Berlandier, Drummond. 

 Wright, Lindheimer, Thurber, and others, and being under the necessity of 

 keeping, as nearly as possible, au courant with all publications upon the sub- 

 ject, I was naturally much interested in the appearance of Mr. Buckley's two 

 papers, and not a little surprised at the large number of new species which lie 

 had gleaned in such a well-harvested field. Accordingly I applied for speci- 

 mens of the plants in question : and Mr. Buckley — an early correspondent of 

 Dr. Torrey and myself — promptly and obligingly has placed in my hands, for 

 examination, nearly tlie whole original materials upon which these new genera 

 and species were characterized. These materials I have examined and com- 

 pared with my own herbarium, calling in the assistance of Dr. Torrey in tliose 

 orders in which I am not proficient ; and I report the results herewith, with 

 the request that, if favorably received by the Academy, they may be printed 

 in its Proceedings. 



I take the species in order, as they stand in Mr. Buckley's papers. 



1. Clematis Tex ens is, Bxickl., is C. Viorna, var. cocctnea, Gray, PL 

 Wr. 2, p. 7, C. coccinea, Engelm. The latter name would have preference ; 

 but I see no reason for changing my published opinion, that it is a mere va- 

 riety of C Viorna, although a striking one. Mr. Buckley's character would 

 have been better had he described the cauline leaves from the specimen in 

 Mr. Durand's herbarium, the " foliolis pusillis, segmentis lanceolatis acutis " 

 being from an imperfectly developed leaf. The leaflets are usually rounded. 



2. Clematis Coloradoensis is founded on a very insufficient, thin- 

 leaved, not fully developed specimen of a common Texan form of C. Pitcheri, 

 Torr. and Gray. The leaves are plainly pinnate, 



3. Streptanthus glabrifolius is a large S. hyacintkoides, Hook. 



4. Streptanthus Brazoensis is S. petiolaris, Gray, PI. Fendl. p. 7, PI. 

 Lindh. 2, p. 143, PL Wr. 2, p. 7, &c. 



5. Lepidixtm Texanum is L. intermedium, Gray, PL Wr. 2, p. 15. 



6. Arenaria (Alsine) m o n t i c o 1 a is ^. Benthamii, Fendl., Torr. and Gray, 

 Fl. 1, p. 675. 



7. Sida Sabeana is Melochia ptjramidata, L. ! 



8. CallirrhiJe palmata is what we have always taken for a small form of 

 C. involucrata, Gray, i. e. Malva invohicrata, var. linearihola, Torr. and Gray, 

 Fl. Some of the specimens with narrow lobes to the leaves are exactly this 

 var. lineariloha (= Berlandier's No. 1815) ; the others are like Capt. Pope's 

 specimens from the Upper Colorado. It appears to run into the ordinary C. 

 involucrata. (I think I have elsewhere stated that C. macrorhiza is prob'ablv 

 a form of the little-known C. aJcceoides.) 



9. Sidalcea Atacosais Malvastrurii pedatifidum, Gray, PL Lindh. 2, p. 160, 

 and in the later collections. How, if "the specimens are in fruit only,'- were 

 the peculiar characters of the genus Sidalcea ascertained ? 



10. Malvastrum linearifolium is Sida fasciculata, Torr. and Gray, a 

 most genuine Sida. 



18G2.] 11 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



11. Elidurandia T e x an a, n. gen., is Fugosia Drummondii, Gray, PI. Wr. 

 1, p. 23. 



12. Linnm (Linopsis) San-Sabeanum is Lechea Drummondii ! 



13. Zantlioxylum hirsutum is the Z. Carolinianum yslt. PL Wright, 1, 

 p. 30, No. 81, there discussed by me, and mentioned as Z. coriaceum, Wright, 

 Z. digynum, Engelm., and Z. alveolatum, Shuttleworth ; so that, if a distinct 

 species, (as I suppose it is not), it has names enough already. As to the 

 hairiness, upon which Mr. Buckley's name is founded, some flowering speci- 

 mens of his in Mr. Durand's herbarium demonstrate the slight importance of 

 this character. 



14. Ampelopsis heptaphyl 1 a is the same as Fendler's No. 108, viz., a 

 small-leaved state of A. qninqtiefolia, o-nly with some of the leaves 6--7-foliolate. 

 It is also in Wright's earlier, undistributed, Texan collection. 



15. Vitis monticola is V. rupestris, Scheele, (see PI. Lindh. 2, p. 165, 

 and PI. Wr. 2, p. 27). 



16. Vitis Linsecomii is what I have always referred to V. Lahrusca. 

 The Louisiana specimen (of Dr. Hale) exactly agrees with specimens from the 

 plant which we formerly cultivated in the Cambridge Botanic Garden as Isa- 

 bella Grape. 



17. Vitis Mustangensis (which is not the Mustang Grape of Florida, 

 &c., vide Chapm. S. Flora, p. 71) is the well known F. candicans, Engelmann, 

 (PL Wright 2, p. 32, &c.) ; and V. coriacea of Shuttleworth is a thick-leaved 

 form of it, the V. Cariboea of Chapman ; whether of De Candolle I am still un- 

 certain, but have seen no West Indian specimens which exactly match it. 

 Surely there is some mistake in the statement that "its leaves are neither 

 toothed nor mucronate." It would be more correct to say that they are never 

 entire, and some Texan specimens of Lindheimer, &c., show the glandular 

 mucronations of C. Cariboea. Perhaps the reader should be warned that 

 mustang is not the name of a town or country, (as the termination ensis implies,) 

 but of a wild horse. 



18. Psoralea palmata is P. cyphocalyx, Gray, PL Lindh. 2, p. 450, coll. 

 No. 593. 



19. Indigofera cin erea, and 20, L Texan a, are both /. leptosepala, Nutt., 

 common in all collections in that region. The specimens afford no evidence 

 that the former has an annual root, and Mr. Buckley does not appear to know 

 the plant except by these specimens. 



21. Amorpha T e x a n a is ^. lavigata, Nutt., var. pubescens, Gray, PL Wr. 

 1, p. 49, the same as Wright's and Lindheimer's specimens, the latter from 

 the very same district ; also apparently A. Raemeriana, Scheele. The pubes- 

 cent forms pass into A. paniculata, Torr. and Gray. 



22. Astragalus Brazoensisis the rare or local A. reflexus, Torr. and Gray, 

 FL, from the district where Drummond discovered it ; the legume better de- 

 veloped and more didymous than in Drummond's specimens. Its cells are 

 not always "monospermous, " some having ripened two seeds. The keel of 

 the corolla is tipped with purple. 



23. Phaca (Astragalus) cretacea is a form of Astragalus ^lissouriensis, 

 Nutt., the flowers of which are "sometimes nearly white," but I suppose not 

 ochroleucous. I have not felt at liberty to make a section of the single nearly 

 full-grown legume which the specimens afibrd; but a closely similar specimen, 

 in an undistributed collection of Mr. Wright from the same district, shows 

 "the lower suture a little introflexed, " just as A. Missouriensis is described 

 in the Flora of North America. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 163 



24. Baptisia T ex a n a, the color of the corolla of which is not mentioned 

 in the singular specific character, is founded on a branch of either B. austral >.'? 

 or leacantha, the two commonest of species. 



25. Cassia Tex an a is C. chamcecristoides, CoUad. (C. cinerea, Cham, and 

 Schlecht.) enumerated in the Botany of the Mex. Bound. Survey, p. 59. It 

 is No. 2427 and 2429 of Berlandier's collection. 



26. Hoopesia arborea, n. gen. and sp. is made up of a flowering speci- 

 men of Cercidiuiii Texanum, Gray, a fruiting one oi Acacia Jlexicaulis, Benth., 

 and a sterile brauchlet of Acacia rigidula, Benth. The character " semen re- 

 miformis " is, like the gender, an oversight. The above are the materials in 

 herb. Durand. Those of the herbarium of the Academy lack the Acacia rigi- 

 dula, and have only broken fragments of the Cercidium. 



27. Acacia Sabeana is Leucmna retusa, Benth., in PI. Wr. 1, p. 64 ; a 

 species not easy to mistake. 



28. Acacia Diarandiana is A. Greggii, Gray, PI. Wright, 1 and 2 ; 

 Bot. Mex. Bound., &c. 



29. Acacia Nueciana is founded on a miserable fragment of Pitkeco'o- 

 bium brevifoUum, Benth., in PI. Wr., 1, p. 67. 



30. Mimosa calcarea is Stromhocarpa {Prosopis, Benth. ) cinerascens, Gray, 

 PI. Wr., 1, p. 61 ; Torr. Bot. Mex. Bound. Surv., p. 60— where it should have 

 mentioned that it is Berlandier's Nos. 2013 and 3143. 



31. Desmanthus pedunculatus is D, velutinus, Scheele, abundant in 

 all collections. 



32. Desmanthus rhombifolius is D. reticulatus, Benth., the characters 

 which distinguish the species quite omitted. 



33. Crataegus T e x a n a is C. tomentosa var. mollis, Gx"ay, Man., and C. sub- 

 villosa, Schrader, not to mention other names. 



34. Gaura triangulata is G. tripetala, Cav. ; Gray, PI. Wr., 1, p. 72, 

 mixed with some G. coccinea. 



35. (Enothera Lampasana is just intermediate between Wright's No. 

 199, (E. Greggii var. pubescens, Gray, PI. Wr., 1, p. 72, and his No. 1076, CE. 

 Hartwegi var. approaching Fendleri. So that, instead of a new species, a 

 farther redaction than I had indicated in PI. Wr., 2, p. 58, &c. is indicated. 



36. (Enothera L e n a, the glabrous calyx excepted, accords throughout 

 with (E. rhombipetala oi the Flora of North America, and I presume with 

 Nuttall's plant, which I have not access to at present. What Mr. Durand 

 takes for (E. rhombipetala (Texas, Dr. Linsecom), also Lindheimer's No. 56 and 

 Berlandier's No. 1842, with the calyx hirsute with very long and spreading 

 hairs, the petals rhombic- ovate, but obtuse and erect pods, I take to be (E. 

 bifrons of Don and Hooker, probably quite distinct, although some forms are 

 questionable. 



37. Mentzelia petiolata is a not uncommon form of 31. oligosperma, 

 Nutt. 



38. Saxifraga T e X a n a : no specimen extant. 



39. Cymopterus macrorhizusis C. montanns, Nutt., and the Texan 

 plant so named in PI. Fendl., p. 56 and PI. Wright, 1, p. 79, the latter from 

 Austin, Mr. Buckley's own locality. I had recorded the fact that it agreed 

 very well with Nuttall's original specimens in the Hookerian herbarium. 



40. Eurytaenia m a c r o p h y 1 1 a, as it appears to me, is E. Texana with 

 1862.] 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the radical leaves, whioli were before unknown. The flowers, upper leaves, 

 &c. are the same, and the fruit of the proposed new species is unknown. 



41. Eupatorium SabeanuniisE'. conyzoides, Vahl., noticed in Bot. Mex. 

 Bound. 



42. Bulbostylis (Brickellia) deltoides is founded on a specimen (with 

 the flowers too undeveloped for Mr. Buckley to make out the generic charac- 

 ter) of Eupatorium Berlandieri, DC. ; also E. agerati folium, var. Mexicanum, 

 DC, and var. Texense, Gray, PI. Lindh., &c. — a familiar Texan plant. 



43. Kuhnia macrantha is the common Western form of K. eupatori- 

 oides var. corymhulosa, Torr. & Gray; and, if to be distinguished, must take the 

 old name of K. Maximiliani, Sinn. 



44. Erigeron Brazoenseis E. tenue, Torr. & Gray, a rather stout and 

 leafy form. 



45. Erigeron nudiflorum is E. divergens, Torr. & Gray, the form called 

 E. cinereum in PI. Fendl. 



46. Machfcranthera (Dieteria) gr and if 1 r a is Xanthisma Texanum, DC. 

 (Centauridium Drummondii, Torr. & Gray), which Mr. Buckley had in his own 

 collection. The rays have fallen, but were bright yellow. 



47. Aplopappus linearifolius is Baccharis Texana, Gray, the femalt 

 plant, showing plainly that it is a Baccharis. 



48. Parthenium lobatumis the old and familiar P. hysterophorus. L. 



49. Aphanostephus pilosus is one of the hispid forms of A. rammosissi- 

 mus, DC. 



50. Sericocarpus (Galatella) Woodhousii is Linosyris Wrightii, Gray, 

 PI. Wr., and has hardly any thing in common with Sericocarpus. 



51. Lepachys s e r r a t u s is Z. peduncularis var. picta, Gray, PI. Wr., 1, p. 

 107. The heads are undeveloped in the specimens. 



52. Margacola p a r v u 1 a nov. gen. (which, from its position, Mr. Buckley 

 may be thought to have mistaken the afiinities of) is Trichocoronis Wrightii, 

 (Jray, PI. Fendl., PI. Wr., &c. 



53. Linsecomia glauca, nov. gen., — the whole published character of 

 which perfectly accords with Helianthus, — is the well known Helianthus cili- 

 aris, DC. 



54. Halea repanda, so far as I can judge from the fragments, accords 

 with H. Ludoviciana (of which it has just the pappus), with more of the leaves 

 (and these sharply dentate instead of " repando-denticulatis") petioled, and 

 some of them lobed. The specimens do not show the plant to be an annual, 

 liut the contrary. 



55. Zexmenia (Lasianthea) h i s p i d u 1 a is Oligogyne Tampicana, DC. 



56. Verbesina T e x a n a is V. microptera, DC, a variety of T". Virginica. 



57. Actinella lanuginosa is J., scaposa, Nutt. 



58. Heterotheca 1 a t i f o 1 i a is H. Chrysopsidis, DC 



59. Gaillardia 1 o b a t a is G. picta, Don., a form with the leaves all sinuate- 

 pinnatifid in one specimen ; the upper ones entire in another, just as in Lind- 

 heimer's No. 103, 



60. Gaillardia scabrosais G. amblyodon, Gay, depauperate specimens, 

 just like Drummond's original ones. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



61. Phileozera (Philoxera was intended) multiflo ra, nov. gen., is Hyme- 

 noxys odorata, DC, Actinella odorata, Gray, PI. Fendl. 



62. Helenium Texanum is just Berlandier's plant, E. microcephalum, 

 DC, a species to include also H. elegans and heterophyllum, DC 



63. Cirsium Texanum is C.Jilipendulum, Engelm., inTorr. & Gray, Fl., 

 there regarded, I think correctly, as a variety of C. Virginianum. 



64. Specularia (Campanula) Linsecomia and Campanula Colorado- 

 ense are 6'. (Campanula) leptocarpa, Engelm., Campylocera leptocarpa, Nutt. 



65. Arbutus Tex ana is the A. Menziesii of the Bot. Mex. Bound., p. 108, 

 and, so far as known, differs from the Western plant only in its smaller leaves. 



66. Comarostaphylis glauca is the same plant as the foregoing. 



67. Bumelia arborea is B. oblongifolia, Nutt., the common species of 

 Lindheimer's and other Texan collections, and certainly a form of B. lanugi- 

 nosa. The long hairs of the lower surface of the adult leaves are not scanty. 



68. Pentstemon pauciflorus is Phlox pilosa, L. ! as to the solitary speci- 

 men in the Academy's herbarium, and nearly the whole description ; while to 

 Durand's herbarium was supplied a bit of the same Phlox and two small 

 specimens of Pentstemon gracilis, Nutt. or (which is probably the same thing) 

 a slender form of P. pubescer^s. The character " filamento sterili glabro apice 

 dilatato" is factitious, since there is no sterile filament in the Phlox, and that 

 of the real Pentstemon (which has been dissected out and displayed in the 

 specimen) is heavily bearded ! 



69. Pentstemon amplexicaule is F. Fendleri, Gray, well figured in the 

 second volume of Pacif. R. Road Reports ; and it is also, with scarce a doubt, 

 both F. acuminatus and F. nilidus of Douglas, &c. 



70. Drejera parviflora is the first plant of the collectioa at all new to 

 me. I believe it to be a congener of Schaueria parviflora and linearifoUa, Torr. 

 Bot. Mex. Bound. 



71. Lithospermum prostratum is exactly Berlandier's No. 2311, L 

 Matamorcnse. DC. The nutlets are rather tawny than white, and are better 

 described by De Candolle than by Buckley. 



72. Echinospermum pilosum is B. Redowski, Lehm., which has been 

 confused with E. palulum, — the same as Fendler's No. 634, Wright's 156!>. kc. 



73. Echinospermum scabrosum is E. strictum, Nees, Torr., Bot. Mex. 

 Bound. 



73a. Eritrichium hispidum is E. Texanum, DC. 



74. Nemophila h i r s u ta (founded on decumbent branches) and N. p i I o s a 

 are both essentially alike, do not diff'er in the kind of pubescence, and are 

 both the original N. phacelioides, Nutt. 



75. Phacelia (Cosmanthus) hispid a is Eutoca patuliflora, Engelm. & 

 Gray, PI. Lindh., (in herb. Durand) — forms verging to E. strictiflora, Engelm. & 

 Gray, 1. c. They all run together, and into Phacelia hirsuia, Nutt., the proper 

 name. 



76. Phlox macrantha, the quite peculiar characters of which are totally 

 overlooked, and the seeds of which are wrongly said to be alate, has long been 

 known in Wright's and Lindheimer's collection (No. 467 of the latter), was 

 named P.Lindheimeri by Engelmann, but published by Scheele under the name 

 of P. Rccmeriana. 



77. Convolvulus (Ipoinea) caddoensis is Tpomea leptojfht/lla, Tott.. long: 

 ago well figured in Emory's Gila Report. 



1862.] 




lt)6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



78. Solanum (Cryptocarpum) Sabeanum is S. Balbisii, Dun., now re- 

 ferred to S. sisymbriifijlium, Lam., the var. aculilobum albiflorum of Dunal. pro- 

 bably also S. tectum, Pars., and an introduced plant. 



79. Solanum (Lasiocarpa) Linsecumii is WUhania sordida. Danal, Torr.. 

 in Bot. Mex. Bound., p. 155. 



80. Physalis Sabeana is P. lobata, Torr. 



81. Nicotiana glandulosa is iV. ipomopsiflora, Ducal; also, A^. trigono- 

 phylla, Dunal, and N. mnUiflora, Nutt. ? Torr. For an elucidation of the species 



see Proceed. Amer. Acad , 5, p. 106. 



82. Erythraea calycosa is Gyrandra chironoides, Griseb. and Erythrxa 

 chironioides, Torr., Bot. Mex. Bound., where the species is cleared up and well 

 figured. 



8.3. Sabbatia formosa is S. campcstris, Nutt., a familiar species, beautifully 

 figured in Bot. Mag. No. 5015. 



84. Forestiera autumnalis differs from jF. liyustrina, especially the var, 

 pubesccns, only in having flowered in summer while the leaves are on. Lindhei- 



mer collected a similar form at Houston, flowering in July, with full-grown 

 leaves terminating the flowering branches. The specimens of Linsecom and 

 Buckley in Durand's herbarium render it clear that all belong to the common 

 Texan F. liyustrina. 



84a. Fraxinus Americana, pubescens and oblongocarpa (a hy- 

 brid name) are all three absolutely the same species, — the differences in the 

 specimens before me being only such as may be found in different trees from 

 the same seed- bed, and are F. pubescens, Lam. 



85. Fraxinus albican s — as to the tree intended from New England, Penn- 

 sylvania, &c. — is what all American botanists have taken for F. Americana. 

 Whether it be the ash Linnasus had in view (excluding the syn. of Catesby), 

 viz., the species of Clayton, I am uncertain, although the remark about the 

 fruit, in the second edition of the Species Plantarum, looks to the white ash 

 rather than to F. pubescens or viridis. But, in adopting his view of the case, 

 Mr. Buckley had no need to give a new specific name to the while ash. There 

 is, first of all, Marshall's most appropriate name, — F. alba. The still older 

 name, — F. Novce- Anylice of Wangenheim, probably belongs here, as also F. ju- 

 (jlandifoUa, Lam. and F. discolor, Muhl. But, above all, an undoubted name of 

 the white ash, over half a century old, is F. epiptera, of the elder Michaux. 

 Here, the phrase "capsulis obverse \a.Dceolat'\s, i7na parte teretibus apleris" is per- 

 fectly discriminative. To be sure Mr. Buckley describes his F. albicans, " sa- 

 maris basi subteretibns,'' and his Americana and pubescens as •■ basi tcretibu.t." 

 Now, our white ash, the F. epiptera of Michaux, is well marked by the latter cha- 

 racter, the wing not at all decurrent as a margin on the terete body of the fruit. 

 Turning to Mr. Buckley's Texan specimens in the herbarium of the Academy. 

 I find that there are two, both in fruit ; one with the larger leaves and fruit is 

 clearly F. viridis, var. Berla/idieriuna, Torr., Bot. Mex. Bound. (/". Berlandieri- 

 una, be.) ; the other is. I think, a form of F. Americana (i. e. albicans of 

 Buckley), of the small-fruited form we are familiar with, but with very small 

 leaves "as well as fruits, the latter terete and cylindrical in the manner of the 

 species. Upon studying our ashes several years ago, I ventured the opinion 

 that the fruits of F. Americana and F. viridis in the Sylva of the younger Mi- 

 chaux were mi.smatcbed. This, Mr. Buckley controverts by stating that the 

 descriptions in the letter-press correspond with the figures on the plates. It 

 would be surprising if they did not, both being drawn from the same materials ! 

 The case may easily be tested. The green ash is as well marked by its foliage 

 as the common white ash is by its fruit. When any person shall exhibit upon 



[April; 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1G7 



a greeu ash such fruit as that represented on Michaux's plate of the species, 

 with an oblong, turgid and terete body, and a wing which commences so ab- 

 ruptly, I shall retract my opinion. 



It is a curious statement to be made in the Proceedings of the Philadelphia 

 Academy of Natural Sciences, that Zaccheus Collins was a pupil and corre- 

 spondent of Linnaeus! Also, that Linnajus may have derived from him and 

 Dr. Kuhn his specimens of Fraxinus Americana, — upon which Linnaeus had pub- 

 lished his last words a little before he ever saw, or probably had ever heard of. 

 Dr. Kuhn, and somewhere about the time that Mr. Collins was born ! 



.86. Fraxinus nigrescens. No specimen of this is communicated. A 

 specimen from Louisiana, Hale, which generally accords with the description, 

 is /'. platycarpa. 



87. Fraxinus trialata is a small-leaved and small-fruited form of i^. viridk, 

 var. Berlandieriana, with a triple wing, which is not uncommon in F.platycarpa 

 and some other species. 



88. Abronia speciosa is one of the forms or species which have been as- 

 sembled under the name of A. mellifera, Dougl., and probably the same as 

 Wright's No. 1710, which had " red-purple flowers," and has been indicated 

 by Dr. Torrey under the still unpublished name of ..i. turhinata, — so that if the 

 same, and reallj- distinct, Mr. Buckley's name will take precedence. 



89. Oxybapbus pauciflorus is a common Texan form of 0. nyclagineu^ ^ 

 vide Gray in Bot. Mex. Bound, p. 174. 



90. Phyllanthus (Lepidanthus) ellipticus is founded, as appears, upon 

 a specimen of one of Wright's collections, given to the Academy's herbarium by 

 Mr. Durand. If I have myself specimens of it they are mislaid. The species is 

 distinct from any of our recognized ones of the United States, and, so far as I 

 know, a new one. But it is not at all a Lepidanthus, is not " dioecious." but 

 monoecious, and its proper characters are not noticed in Mr. Buckley's descrip- 

 tion. Moreover, his specific name is anticipated. 



91. Morus microphylla, a common Texan Mulberry, which certainly 

 does appear distinct from M. rubra, and was so regarded by Dr. Engelmann, 

 who distributed Lindheimer's specimens under the name of M. parvifolia ; but I 

 think it has not been published. Dr, Torrey refers it to JI. rubra. 



92. Yucca 1 n g f 1 i a ; no specimen supplied. 



9.>. Yucca constricta is Y. angusfifolia, Nutt. The constriction of the 

 capsule is inconstant. It occurs also in Y. rupicola. This and all the following 

 determinations are by Dr. Torrey. 



04. Juncus filipendulus "s./^. heieranthos, Nutt., a variety of J. margina- 

 lus, Rostk. 



95. Juncus d i f f u s i s s i m u s is J. debilis, Gray, Man. 



96. Tradescantia speciosa as appears from the character and an un- 

 named species in herb. Durand, is the well-marked T. leiandra, Torr., Bot. Mex. 

 Bound, (misprinted " T. biandra '') ; but Mr. Buckley has omitted to notice its 

 beardless filaments. 



97. Cyperus retroflexus is a fully developed state of C. uniflorus, Torr. 

 Mon. Cyp., which was described from starved specimens. 



98. Cyperus r u f i c o m u s is C. Ivtescens, Torr. 



99. Cyperus Heermanniiis not identified with any published North Ame- 

 rican species. 



100. Chaetocyperus membranaceus is Eleocharis pygmcea, Torr., the va- 

 riety with naked achenia noticed in Nicollet's report'. 



1862.] 




168 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



101. Eleocharis cylindrica is E. tenuis, Schultes, a variety with smooth 

 achenia. 



102. Eleocharis micro formis [a hybrid name] is near E. intermedia, 

 Schultes. 



103. Eleocharis acutisquamata is the E. palustris var. anachceia, Torr. 



It will be perceived that all the new genera of Mr. Buckley's two papers, and 

 nearly all the new species, are either oversights or mistakes, which might have 

 been avoided. The painful duty I have had to perform was all the more neces- 

 sary, inasmuch as the true names of the plants could seldom have been ascer- 

 tained from the published descriptions in those papers. However excellent the 

 author's intentions, we can only regret a publication which entails upon our 

 science a hundred worse than useless synonyms, (a regret which I have reason 

 to believe Mr. Buckley now shares), and we should endeavor to prevent future 

 calamities of the kind. In this regard, understanding that a third paper of the 

 sort, upon a peculiarly difficult order of plants, has been printed in the Acade- 

 my's Proceedings, but not yet issued, I am confident that my motives will not 

 be misunderstood when I venture to suggest, that the credit both of the Acade- 

 my and of the author of the paper, no less than the interests of science, would 

 be most subserved by the cancelling of the sheets. 



Descriptions of Ten new species of XrNIONID.a: of the United States. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



Unio grandidens. — Testa valde tuberculata, obliqua, ad umbones inflata; 

 valvulis crassissimis, antice crassioribus ; natibus valde tumidis terminalibus- 

 que ; epidermide fusca ; dentibus cardinalibus pergrandibus, percrassis corruga- 

 tisque ; lateralibus crassis, sublongis, obliquis et valde corrugatis; margarita 

 alba et iridescente. 



Ilab. — Near Hot Springs, Arkansas, Byrd Powell, .M. D, 



TJnio SPECiosDS. — Testa omnino tuberculata, fere granulata, quadrangulari, 

 valde compressa, ad latere planulata, subsEquilaterali, postice subbiangulata et 

 cmarginala, antice rotundata ; valvulis subcrassis, antice paulisper crassioribus : 

 natibus subelevatis, ad apices acuminatis et elcgantissimc perundulatis ; epi- 

 dermide viridi-lute;i, substriata, vel obsolete radiata vel eradiata, submicanti; 

 dentibus cardinalibus subgrandibus, corapressis, obliquis, erectis, striatis. in 

 utroque valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus rectis, sublongis obliquisque ; margarita 

 argentea et iridescente. 



Hall. — Colorado River, near Lagrange, Texas, Prof. Forshey ; and Leon Co., 

 Texas, Lieut. E. F. Beale. 



Unio Leibii.— Testa Isevi, quadra, subcompressa, valde innequilaterali, pos- 

 tice emarginata, antice rotundata, valvulis subcrassis, antice crassioribus ; 

 natibus subprominentibus, fere terminalibus; epidermide straminea, eradiata ; 

 dentibus cardinalibus subgrandibus, erectis striatisque ; lateralibus curtis, rec- 

 tis crassisque, in utroque valvulo duplicibus; margarita alba et paulisper iri- 

 descente. 



Bab.— Erie Co., Michigan, G. B. Leib, M. D. 



Unio Gerhaedtii. — Testa subsulcata, elliptica, subcompressa, sublenticulari, 

 inaequilaterali, postice obtuse angulatu, antice rotunda; valvulis crassiusculis, 

 antice paulisper crassioribus; natibus subelevatis ; epidermide straminea. radiia 

 capillaribus ; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, compressis, in utroque valvulo 

 duplicibus; lateralibus sublongis, lamellatis subcurvisque ; margarita alba et 

 valde iridescente. 



Ifafi. — Chattanooga, Geo., Alexander Gerhardt. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



Unio Mercerii — Testa h-evi, late elliptica, compressa, postice compressa et 

 biangulatil, antice rotundatil, valde injequLlaterali ; valvulis subtenuibus ; nati- 

 bus prominulis ; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, subnitida, eradiata ; dentibus car- 

 dinalibus parvis, tuberculatis striatisque ; lateralibus prselongis subcurvisque : 

 margarita purpureS, et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Lee Co., Geo., Dr. Mercer. 



Unio Arkansasensis. — Testa laevi, ovato-obliqua, inaBquilaterali, postice com- 

 pressa et obtuse biangulata, antice rotunda; valvulis crassiusculis, antice 

 paulisper crassioribus ; natibus subelevatis ; epidermide flavesceate, obsolete 

 radiata; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, striatis crenulatisque ; lateralibus sub- 

 longis, subrectis subcrassisque ; margarita albii et valde iridescente. 



Ilab. — Near Hot Springs, Arkansas, Byrd Powell, M. D. 



Unio Bealei. — TestS, laevi, elliptica, subcompressa, inaequilaterali, postice 

 obtuse angulata, antice rotuadata; valvulis crassiusculis, antice crassioribus; 

 natibus prominulis ; epidermide vel tenebroso-fusca vel nigricante, obsolete ra- 

 diate ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, compressis, crenulatis, acuminatis, in utro- 

 que valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus prselongis, subcurvis, lamellatis; margarita 

 vel alba vel dilute salmonia et valde iridescente. 



Hah. — Leon County, Texas, Lieut. E. F. Beale, U. S, Navy. Rutersville, 

 Texas, Prof. Forshey. 



Anodonta Leonensis. — Testa lavi, elliptica, inflata, inaequilaterali, postice 

 subbiangulata, antice oblique rotundata et paulisper sulcata ; valvulis tenuibas, 

 antice paulisper crassioribus ; natibus prominentibus, tumidis, ad apices nodo- 

 sis ; epidermide fulgida, luteo-virente vel fuscescente, vel obsolete radiata vel 

 eradiata ; margarita caeruleo-alba et valde iridescente. 



Ilab. — Leon County, Texas, Lieut. E. F. Beale, U. S. Navy. 



Anodonta Williamsii. — Testa laevi, ovato-oblonga, inflata, subaequilaterali, 

 postice subbiangulata, antice rotundata et paulisper sulcata; valvulis sub- 

 tenuibus, antice ad marginem incrassatis ; natibus prominulis, inflatis, ad apices 

 undulatis ; epidermide vel viridi vel luteo-oliva, fulgida, obsolete radiata vel 

 eradiata; margarita cEeruleo-alba et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Potomac River, at the White House below Mt. Vernon, H. C. Williams. 



Anodonta Trtonii. — Testa lasvi, obliquo-elliptica, subcompressa, sublenticu- 

 lari, valde inaequilaterali, postice subbiangulari, antice rotundata ; valvulis 

 tenuibus; natibus prominulis, subcompressis, ad apices undulatis, epidermide 

 fulgida, vel virente vel fuscescente, obsolete radiata; margarita caeruleo-alba 

 et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Schuylliill River, above Philadelphia, Delaware River, at League Isl- 

 and, G. W. Tryon, jr. Flemington, Con., Prof. Shepard. Westfield,°Mass., 

 Dr. Shurtleff; and Potomac near Chain Bridge, above Washington, Prof. Henry. 



Description of a New Genus, (TRYPANOSTOMA) of tlie Family MELANID.!, 

 and of forty-five New Species. 



BY ISAAC LEA.' 

 Family MELANIDJE. 

 Genus Trypanostoma.* — Testa conica, apertura rhomboidea, inferne sub- 

 canaliculata. Labro expanso. Columella Itevis, inferne co^jtorta. Operculum 

 corneum, ad spirans pertiuens. 



The enormous number of species in the genus Melania, Las made it very de- 

 sirable to eliminate as many as possible, by founding new genera, when well- 

 characterised groups can be established. With this view, I proposed, in the 



* Tgyi^atvov, an auger, and cri/ua, a mouth. 

 1862.] 12 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Proceedings of ihe Academy in April last, the genus Strephobasis. The genas 

 now proposed, under the name of Trypanostoma, will include all the well-known 

 Melanla. with an auger-shaped aperture, the tjpe of which may be considered 

 Mr. Say's Melania canaliculata, a common and well-known species from the basin 

 of the Ohio River. It will include a number of large species, indeed, nearly all 

 of the large and ponderous species of the United States. Many new ones will 

 be found in this paper. Objections may be raised against increasing the num- 

 ber of genera without the aid of the examination of the soft parts. But there 

 is no validity in this objection, from the fact, that in the present condition of 

 the Science of Malacology, we are becoming acquainted with a vast number of 

 new and interesting forms, without the hope, at present, of seeing the soft 

 portion of the animals. These may, at some future time, and, no doubt, will 

 be examined and carefully described by Zoologists, who may dwell near the 

 waters where these numerous and highly developed species reside. Until this 

 takes place, we can only group them upon the characters which are presented 

 by their outward hard portions, which are accessible to us now. 



In proposing this new genus, I am aware that European Zoologists have made 

 many genera and subgenera in this Family, but none have made groups of our 

 numerous species by which they can be properly divided. Tiiey have mixed 

 them up, notwithstanding all the time and care they have bestowed upon them, 

 in a manner so as to make great confusion. Mr. Swainson,in his "Treatise on 

 Malacology," proposed a subgenus of Mrlania under the name of Ceriphasia, 

 and gives a figure, page 204, (C. sulcata,) stating it came from Ohio. It is 

 evident, on looking on this figure, that il does not represent any Ohio species, 

 neither in the aperture nor in the revolving ribs. Dr. Gray and the Messrs. 

 Adams* adopt the genus, and the latter give a figure (pi. 31, fig. 6) of canali- 

 culata, Say, as the type, which I do not think answers to the description or 

 figure of Mr. Swainson. Dr. Gray, in his excellent "List of the genera of Re- 

 cent Mollusca," in the Proceedings of the Zoological Society, expresses a doubt 

 whether his Telescopella may not be the same with Ceriphasia. Mr. Reeve, in 

 his beautiful work, " Conchologia Iconica," mixes may of our species in a man- 

 ner that does not admit of their being separated into groups ; and Dr. Chenu 

 (" Manuel de Conchyliologie'") groups together some very incongruously. 

 Many of our groups are emphatically American, and the divisions made by our 

 zoologists have not had the attention they deserve from European writers. 

 Thus, neither Dr. Gray, Mr. Reeve, nor the Messrs. Adams adopt Prof. Halde- 

 man's genus Lithasia, established so long since, and which is an easily recog- 

 nized group. Mr. Reeve puts the various species of that group into my genus 

 lo to which they certainly do not belong, and Dr. Chenu puts part of them 

 there. The genus Amnicola, long since proposed by Gould and Haldeman, for 

 a very natural group of small shells, divided from Paludina, is not recognized 

 by Chenu or Reeve. 



In a future paper I propose to define the group into which our Mclanidm 

 seem naturally to divide themselves, adopting the well recognized genera 

 which have been established. 



Trypanostoma dux. — Testa carinata, pyramidata, crassa, rnfo-fuscescente; 

 spira valde elevata; suturis paulieper impressis ; anfractibus instar novenis, 

 planulatis ; apertura subgrandi, rhorabica, intus pallido salmonia ; labro 

 acuto, sinuoso; columella incrassata et valde contorta. 



jjab. — Tennessee River, W. Spillman, M. D. Fox River, Illinois, J. Sampson. 

 Oostenanla, Rev. G. White. Tuscumbia, B. Pybas. 



Trypanostoma Thortonii. — Testa carinata, pyramidata, subcrassS, cornea 



* Messrs. Adams for the type of subgenus Juga give Bvddi!, Say. I am not aware 

 that Mr. Say described any Melanian under that name; and in Megara ihey give alveare. 

 Con. and basalia. Lea, as types, while they certainly belong to very different groups, 

 having very differently formed apertures. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 171 



vel vittata vel evittata ; spira regulariter elevata ; suturis parum impressis ; 

 anfractibus instar denis, planulalis ; apertura parviuscula, rhomboidea, intu3 

 albida ; labro acuto, valde sinuoso ; columella, inferne incrassata, et valde 

 contorta. 



//a6.— Tuscumbia, Ala., L. B. Thorton, Esq. and Rev. G. White. Chatta- 

 nooga, Tenn., J. Clark. 



Tktpanostoma Troostii — Testa carinafa, conoidea, valde inflata, vel luteo- 

 cornea vel viridescente, vel vittata vel evittata ; spira elevata; snturis valde et 

 irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus instar novenis, subimpressis, interdum 

 canaliculatis ; apertura grandi, rhomboidea, intus albida, interdum vittata ; 

 labro acuto, sinuoso: columella inft-rne incrassata et valde contorla. 



Hah. — Tennessee, Prof. G. Troost. Florence, Ala., Rev. G. White. Ooste- 

 naula River, Ga., Bishop Elliott ; and Fox River, near New Harmony, Indiana. 

 J. Sampson. 



Trtpaxostoma incurvcm. — Testa carinata, conoidea, subtenui, cornea ; spira 

 subelevata ; suturis regulariter impressis: anfractibus octonis. planulatis, in- 

 ferne obsolete striatis ; apertura parviuscula, rhomboidea, intus albida; labro 

 acuto, sigmoidea ; columella valde contorta. 



Hab. — Florence, Ala., Rev. G. White. 



Trypanostoma Postellii — Testa carinata, pyramidata, subcrassa, cornea ; 

 spira regulariter conicfi ; suturis valde impressis: anfractibus octonis, vel 

 planulatis vel impressis, ultimo parviusculo; apertura parvissima, rhomboidea, 

 intus albida; labro acuto, valde sinuoso; columella inferne incrassata et valde 

 contorta. 



Hah. — Tennessee River, J. Postell. North Alabama, Prof. Tuomey. 



Trypanostoma Tuometi. — Testa carinata, crassiuscula, elevato-conica, tene- 

 broso-fusca ; spira elevato-conica ; suturis vix impressis ; anfractibus instar 

 denis. planulatis, inferne obsolete striatis ; apertura parva, rhomboidea, intus 

 tenebrosa ; labro acuto, sinuoso; columella paulisper incrassata, et valde 

 contorta. 



Hah. — North Ala., Prof. Tuomey. Florence, Ala., Rev. G. White. 



Trypanostoma Florexcense. — Testa subcarinata, turritA, subcrassa, tene- 

 broso-fusca vel luteo-cornea, obsolete vit'ata vel evitta'a ; spiia valde elevata ; 

 suturis leviter impressis : anfractibus instar undeni?, paulisper convexis ; aper- 

 tura parviuscula, rhomboidea, intus c?eruleo-alba; labro acuto, sinuoso ; colu- 

 mella albida et valde contortd. 



Hah. — Florence, Ala., Dr. Spillman. Tascumbia, L. B. Thornton, Esq. 



Trypanostoma Clarkii. — Testa obtuse carinata, conica, subcrassa, tenebroso- 

 oliva ; spira elevata ; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus instar octonis, planu- 

 latis : apertura parviuscula, rhomboidea, intus albidi ; labro acuto, sinuoso ; 

 columella alba et contorta. 



Hah. — French, Broad and Tellico Creeks, Tenn., J. Clark and Prof. Christy. 

 Florence, Ala., G. White. Noxubee River, Miss., Dr. Spillman ; and Clinch 

 River, Tenn., Dr. Warder. Coosa, Cahawba and Alabama Rivers, Ala., Dr. 

 Showalter. 



Trypanostoma Alabamense. — Testa carinata, crassiuscula, subfusiforrai, tene- 

 broso-cornea ; spira subattenuata : suturis regulariter impressis; anfractibus 

 instar octonis, planulatis, inferne striatis; apertura parviuscula; rhomboidea, 

 intug albida ; labro acuto, sinuoso ; columella inferne incrassata et valde 

 contorta. 



Hab. — North Alabama, Prof. Tuomey. Florence, Ala., Rev. G. White. 



Trypanostoma ligatum. — TestA carinata, fusiformi, subcrassa, inflata, nitida, 

 vittata vel evittata, luteo-oliva; spira obtuse conica; suturis impressis; an- 



1862.] 




172 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



fractibus septenis, convexiusculis, ultimo pergrandi, ligala apud peripheriam ; 

 apertura grandi, rhomboideu, intus obsolete vittata ; labro acuto, sinuoso; 

 columella inferne incrassata, ad basim rufo-maculata, valde contorta. 



Ilab. — Tennessee, Prof. Troost. Cumberland, River, C. T. Downie. North 

 Ala., Prof, Tuomey. Ohio River at Cincinnati, U. P. Jamea. 



Trypanostoma Pybasii. — Testa obtose carinata, obtuse conica, solida, bi- 

 vitta, viridi-fusta ; spira obtnsa; sutnris valde impressis ; anfractibus instar 

 Qctonis, convexiusculis ; apertura parva, rhombica, intus alba et vittata ; labro 

 acuto, valde sinuoso ; columella inferne incrassata et valde contorta. 



JIah. — Tuscumbia, Ala., B. Pybas. 



Trypanostoma olivaceum. — Testa carinata, subfusiformi, subcrassa, olivacea; 

 spira subobtasa ; suturis impressis; anfractibus instar octonis, planulatis ; 

 apertura subgrandi, rhomboidea, intus albida; labro acuto, sinuoso ; columella 

 inferne incrassata et valde contorta. 



Hab. — Tombigbee River, Mississippi,"W. Spillman, M. D. 



Trypanostoma monilifercm. — Testa tuberculatti, crassa, pyramidata, vel 

 luteola vel virente, vittata vel evittata ; spira, elevato-pyramidata ; sutnria 

 irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus instar denis, planulatis, inferne striatis, 

 interdum obsolete sulcatis, ad peripheriam tuberculatis ; apertura subgrandi, 

 rhomboidea, intus vel albida vel salmonia, plerumque bivittata ; labro acuto, 

 valde sinuoso ; columella inferne incrassata et valde contorta. 



Hub. — Tennessee, Prof. Troost and Mr. Anthony. Florence, Ala., Rev. G. 

 White, Mr. Pybas and Mr. Thornton. Cumberland River, Dr. Powell. Ohio 

 River, near the mouth, in Illinois, J. Donaldson. New Harmony, Indiana, Mr. 

 Carley and Mr. Sampson. Warrior River, Ala., Prof. Brumby. 



Trypanostoma Lewisii. — Testa sulcata, subtenui, elevato-conica, tenebroso- 



fusca vel cornea, vittata ; fpira atienuata ; sutnris paulisper impressis; an- 

 fractibus instar undenis, {danulatis; apertura parva, subrhomboidea, intus 

 vittata ; labro acuto, paulisper sinuoso ; columella inferne paulisper incrassata 

 et valde contorta. 



Hab. — Peoria, Illinois, J. Lewis, M.D. 



Trypanostoma mokifokmi. — Testa sulcata, subcylindracea, solida, uno- vittata, 

 cornea, spird obtuse conica; suturis impressis; anfractibus instar novenis, 

 impressis, canaliculatis ; apertura parviuscula, rhombica, intus alba et uno- 

 viitata ; labro acuto, valde sinuoso; columella inferne incrassata et valde 

 contorta. 



Zr«S.— Oostenaula River, near Rome, Ga., Rev. G. White. Tenn. River, Dr. 

 Spillman. Tuscumbia, Ala. B. Pybas. 



Trypanostoma vieide. — Testa subsulcata, subcrassa, subfusiformi, olivacea: 

 spira obtuse conica; suturis valde impressis; anfractibus septenis, convexis, 

 ultimo subcanaliculato ; apertura subgrandi, rhomboidea, intus vel purpured 

 vel albida; labro acuto, sinuoso; columella inferne incrassata et paulisper 

 contorta. 



Hab. — Tennessee, Prof. Troost. 



Trypanostoma Showalterii. — Testa striata, interdum l»vi, valde exerta, 

 crassa subcylindracea, vel cornea vel fusca, interdum inferne vittata: spir4 

 valde elevata ; suturis valde impressis; anfractibus novenis, subplanulatis ; 

 apertutii parva, rhomboidea, intus vel albida vel salmonia; labro acuto, parum 

 sinuoso ; columella interne incrassata et valde contorta. 



Hab. — Cahawba River, Ala., E. R. Showalter, M. D. Tuscaloosa, Ala., Dr. 

 Budd. Oostenaula River, Ga., Rev. G. White and Bishop Elliott. 



Trypanostoma Anthonyi. — Testa rugoso striata, pyramidata, crassa, luteo- 

 olivacea ; .-pira elevata ; suturis rugoso-impressis ; anfractibus instar novenis, 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



planulatis ; aperturu, subgrandi, rhomboideu, intus alba ; labro acuto, sinuoso ; 

 columella inferne incrassata et valde contorta. 



Hab. — Tennessee, J. G. Anthony. Warrior River and Yellowleaf Creek, Ala., 

 Dr. Showalter. Fox River, Indiana ; J. Sampson. 



Trypasostoma striatdm. — Testa striata, subulari, subtenui, cornea ; spiru 

 elevata ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus instar octonis, convexiusculif, ultimo 

 parviusculo ; aportura parvil, subrbomboidta, intus albida ; labro acuto, valdi- 

 sinuoso, expanso ; columella paulisper incrassata et valde sinuosa. 



Hab. — Florence, Ala., B. Pybas. 



Trtpanostoma Hartmanii. — Testa laevi, interdum obsolete canaliculata, solida, 

 virente vel rufo-fuscescente, regulariter conica, vittata vel evittata ; spira pyra- 

 midata ; suturis regulariter impressis; anfractibus instar novenis, convexius- 

 culis ; apertura parva, rhomboidea, intus vel alba vel salmoniu ; labro acuto, 

 sinuoso ; columella inferne incrassata et valde contorta. 



Hab. — Cahawba and Coosa Rivers ; Dr. Showalter. Warrior River, Ala- 

 bama. Knoxville, Dr. Budd and J. Clark. Tenn. River, Ala., Dr. Spillman. 



Trypanostoma Jayi. — Testa Ijevi, subpupoidea, crassa, nitida, rufo-fusca ; 

 spira obtuso-conica ; suturis valde impressis, anfractibus octonis, subtumidis. 

 ultimo subgrandi; apertura parva, rhomboidea, subangusta, intus pallido-fusca: 

 labro acuto, sinuoso ; columella inferne incrassata et contorta. 



Hab. — , Alabama? J. C. Jay, M. D. 



Tetpanostoma Spillmanii. — Testa laevi, regulariter conica, tenebroso-olivu ; 

 spira elevata; suturis regulariter impressis ; anfractibus instar novenis, planu- 

 latis ; apertura parviuscula, rhomboidea, intus albida, interdum vittata ; labro 

 acnto, sinuoso ; columella alba et valde contorta. 



Hab. — Noxubee River, Miss., W. Spillman, M. D. ; and Tenn., J. Clark. 



Trypanostoma Christyi. — Testa laevi, elevato-conica, crassiuscula, cornea, 

 raro vittata; spira valde elevata; suturis regulariter impressis; anfractibus 

 instar denis, parum convexis ; apertura parva, subrhomboidea, intus albida ; 

 labro acuto, sinuoso; columella alba et contorta. 



Hab. — Cane Creek, Tenn., Prof. D. Christy. 



Trypanostoma labiatom. — Testa laBvi, acuto-conica, subcrassa, nitidix, virido- 

 cornea ; spira attenuata, mucronata ; suturis regulariter impressis; anfractibus 

 instar denis, convexiusculis, ad apicem carinatis, ultimo subgrandi ; apertura 

 parviuscula, rhomboidea, intus albida; labro acuto, jnxta marginem incrassato, 

 valde dilatato, valde sinuoso ; columella albida, inferne incrassata et valde 

 contorta. 



Hab. — Big Miami River, Ohio, J. Clark. 



Trypanostoma Whitei. — Testa laevi, attenuato-conica, crassiuscula, tenebro- 

 so-cornea ; spira valde elevata ; suturis regulariter impressis ; anfractibus 

 instar novenis, convexiusculis; apertura parva, subrhomboidea, intus albida; 

 labro acuto, sinuoso ; columella inferne incrassata et contorta. 



Hab. — Lafayette co. and Marietta, Ga. ; Rev. G. White. Farland's Creek, 

 Mississippi, Dr. Spillman ; and Tenn., J. G. Anthony. 



Trypanostoma Estabrookii. — TestS. laevi, atteuuato-conica, subtenui, cornea ; 

 spira valde elevata, superne carinata ; suturis regulariter impressis; anfracti- 

 bus instar denis, convexis ; apertura parva, subrhomboidea, intus albida; labro 

 acuto, subsinuoso ; columella alba et contorta. 



Hab. — East Tennessee, President Estabrook and Bishop Elliott. Near Cleve- 

 land, Tenn., Prof. Christy ; and Monroe co., Tenn., J. Clark. 



Trypanostoma Knoxvillense. — Testa laevi, subulari, subtenui, pallido-cor- 

 nea; spira attenuato-conica, mucronata; suturis regulariter impressis ; anfracti- 

 bus denis, convexiusculis, ad apicem carinatis, ultimo subconstricto ; apertura 

 1862.] 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



parva, subrhomboidea, intus alba; labro acuto, sinuoso; columella inferne 

 incrassat^ et paulisper contorta. 

 Hab. — Knoxville, Tenn., Pres. Estabrook. 



Trypanostoma attenuatcm. — Testa lacvi, subulari, subtenui, cornea ; spira 

 attenuata; suturis impressis ; anfractibus novenis, vix convexis, ultimo parvo ; 

 apertura parva, rhomboidea, intus albida ; labro acuto, valde sinuoso; colu- 

 mella vix incrassata et contorta. 



Hab. — Lafayette, Ga.,Rev. G. White ; and Tenn., Dr. Hartman. 



Trypanostoma snBUL.EFORME. — Testa carinata, subulari, subtenui, cornea ' 

 spira at'enuato couica; suturis valde impressis; anfractibus denis, inferne 

 planulatis, superne carinaiis ; apertura parva, subrhomboidea, intus albida; 

 labro acuto, sinuoso ; columella paulisper incrassata et contorta. 



5a6.— Knoxville, Tenn., Prof. Troost and W. Spillman, M. D. 



Trypanostoma tortcm. — Testa substriata, conica, cornea, subcrassa : spir4 

 subobtuso-conica ; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus septenis, planulatis ; 

 apertura subgrandi, subrhomboidea, intus albida; labro acuto, vix sinuoso ; 

 columella valde incurvata, superne paulisper incrassata, inferne incrassata et 

 valde contorta. 



Eab. — Uchee Bar, below Columbus, Ga., J. Lewis, M. D. 



Trypanostoma pallidum. — Testa laevi, attenuato-conica, subcrassa, pallido- 

 cornea; spira valde elevata ; suturis valde impressis; anfractibus undenis, con- 

 vexiusculis, superne eubgeniculatis ; apertura parviuscula, subrhomboidea, 

 intus alba ; labro acuto, sinuoso ; columella alba et valde contorta. 



Hab. — Niagara Falls, New York. 



Trypanostoma partcm. — Testa laevi, crassiuscula, conoidea, cornea, vittata 

 vel evittata ; spira conoidea; suturis regulariter impressis; anfractibus octonis, 

 planulatis; apertura parva, rhomboidea, intus albida; labro acuto, paulisper 

 sinuoso; columella inferne paulisper incrassata et contorta. 



Hah. — Knoxville, Pres. Estabrook; and French Broad River, East Tenn., J. 

 Clark. 



Trypanostoma modestcm. — Testa laevi, conica, subtenui, virido-cornea; spirS, 

 subelevata ; suturis linearibus ; anfractibus instar septenis, convexiusculis, 

 ultimo subcompresso ; apertura parviuscula, subrhomboidea, intus ca*ruleo- 

 alba ; labro acuto, sinuoso, expanso ; columella inferne paulisper incrassata et 

 contorta. 



Hab. — Chilogita Creek, Blount co., Tenn., J. Clark. 



Trypanostoma simplex. — Testa Ifevi, conica, subcrassa, luteo-olivacea, spira 

 subelevata; suturis paulisper impressis; anfractibus octonis, subconvexis, 

 ultimo subconstricto ; apertura parva, constricta, rhomboidea, intus albida ; 

 labro acuto, sinuoso ; columella inferne incrassata, et contorta. 



Hab. — Cincinnati, Ohio, T. G. Lea. 



Trypanostoma minor. — Testa Iffivi, obtuse conoidea, subcrassil, luteola, vit- 

 tata ; spira obtuso-conoidea ; suturis valde impresiss ; anfractibus septenis, 

 convexiusculis, ultimo grandi ; apertura grandi, subrhomboidea, intus alb4, 

 interdum vittata; labro acuto, sinuoso ; colamella incurva, inferne incrassata 

 et paulisper contorta. 



Hab. — Tennessee, Prof. Troost. 



Trypanostoma pdmilcm. — Testa loevi, nitida, conoidea, subsolida, luteo- 

 virescente, bivittatii; spira obtuso-conoidea; suturis valde impressis ; anfrac- 

 tibus septenis, subconvexis, ultimo pergrandi ; apertura subgrandi, rhomboidea, 

 intus albida et trivittata ; labro acuto, sinuoso ; columella inferne incrassata 

 et valde contorta. 



Hab. — Tennessee, Prof. Troost. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



Trypanostoma bivittatdm. — Testa laevi, conoidea. suborassa, lutea, bivittata ; 

 spina obtu30-conoidea ; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus septenis, subcon- 

 vexis, ultimo grandi ; apertura subgrandi, subrliomboidea, intus alba, bivit- 

 tata; labro acuto, paulisper siauoso; columella inferae incrassata et vald« 

 contorta. 



Hab. — Tennessee, Prof. Troost. 



Trypanostoma Vanuxemii. — Testa laeri, conoidea, flavida, vel bivittata vel 

 evittata ; spira obtuso-conica; suturis impressis; anfractibus senis, convexius- 

 eulis ; apertura parviuscula, subrhoraboidea, intus albida ; labro aeuto, sinuoso ; 

 columella inferne incrassata et valde contorta. 



Hab. — South Carolina, Prof. L. Vanusem. 



Trypanostoma trivittatum. — Testa lasvi, subfusiformi, subtenui, nitidTi, oli- 

 vacea, trivittatu ; spira conica, mucronata, ad apicem carinata ; suturis line- 

 aribus ; anfractibus octonis, planulatis, ultimo subgrandi ; apertura subgrandi, 

 rhomboidea, intus vittata ; labro acuto, sinuoso; columella paulisper incrassata 

 et incurva. 



Hab. — Tombigbee River, Mississippi, W. Spillman, M. D. 



Trypanostoma trochulus. — Testa laevi, trochiformi, valde tumida, lutea, 

 infra unifasciata; spira valde obtusa ; suturis impressis; anfractibus senis, 

 superne planulatis, inferne inflatis ; apertura grandi, rhomboidea, albida et 

 unifasciata ; labro acuto, sinuoso ; columella inferne incrassata et valde 

 contorta. 



Hah. — Holston River, Tenn., Prof. G. Troost. 



TrypanostoxMa Sycamor£nse. — Testa plicata, conica, luteo-cornea, subcrassa; 

 spira aitenuatil, mucronata; suturis impressis; anfractibus undents, convexi- 

 usculis, superne carinatis, in medio plicatis ; apertura parviuscula, rhomboidea, 

 intus albida; labro acuto, sinuoso; columella incurva, inferne incrassata et 

 contorta. 



Hab. — Sycamore, Claiborne co., E. Tenn., J. Lewis, II. D. 



Trypanostoma Chakasahaense — Testa laevi, conica, fusco-virente, subtenui, 

 bivittata; spira subattenuata; suturis valde impressis; anfractibus instar oc- 

 tonis, convexis, superne carinatis; apertura parva, rhombica, intus alba et 

 vittata; labro acuto, sinuoso; columella incurva, inferne incrassata et valde 

 contorta. 



Hab. — Chakasaha River, Ala. ,Wm. Spillman, M. D. 



Trypanostoma Tennesseense. — Testa hi'vi, obtuse conica, valde inflata, sub- 

 crassa, tenebroso-fusca; spira brevi, valde obtusa ; suturis impressis; anfrac- 

 tibus instar denis, convexis; apertura magna, rhomboidea, intus tenebrosa; 

 labro acuto, expanso, inflecto et valde sinuoso; columella interne valde incras- 

 sata et contorta. 



Hab. — Tenn., Prof. Troost. Lebanon co., Tenn., J. M. Safford, 



Trypanostoma Knoxense. — Testa Itevi, conica, vel ferruginea vel vittata, 

 subcrassa; spira subelevata, mucronata ; suturis impressis; anfractibus octo- 

 nis, convexiusculis, superne carinatis ; apertura parva, intus vel albida vel 

 fusca ; labro acuto, sinuoso, expanso; columella paulisper incrassata et 

 contorta. 



i3a6.— Flat Creek, Knox co., Tenn., Prof. D. Christy. 



Trypanostoma canalitidm. — Testa canaliculata, conica, crassiuscula, cornea, 

 obsolete vittata ; spira regulariter conica, subelevata, ad apicem bivittata ; 

 suturis impressis; anfractibus planulatis; instar septenis, ultimo caualiculato; 

 apertura parva, rhomboidea, intus vel alba vel salmouia et vittata; labro acuta 

 et sigmoideo; columella contorta, ad basim recurva. 



/ia6.— Yellow leaf Cr., Ala., E. K. Showalter, M. D. 



18(J2.] 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Descriptions of two new species of IXOTIC UNIONIS and one 

 MONOCONDYLCEA. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 



Unio Paramattensis. — Testa, crebre et leviter sulcata, elliptica, subinflatat 

 valde inaequilaterali, postice obtuse angulata, antice lotundata; valvulis cras- 

 siusculis, antice paulisper crassioribus ; ualibus prominulis, ad apices radiis 

 undulatis ; epidermide tenebroso-lusca, nigricante, eradiata; dentibus cardi- 

 nalibus parvis, valde conipressis, obliquis, valvulae dextrae duplicibus ; late- 

 ralibus praeloDgis, lamellalis subrectisque ; margaritaalba et valde iridescente. 

 Hub. — Paramatta River, New South Wales, Smithsonian Institution. 



Unio Pazii. — Testa ]?evi, obliqua, antice infiata, valde inaequilaterali, postice 

 acuto-angulata et atlenuata, antice rotundata ; valvulis crassiusculis, postice 

 paulisper crassioribus ; natibus tumidis, subterminalibus ; epidermide olivacea, 

 obsolete radiata, et tiansverse late vittata; dentibus cardinalibus longis, 

 lamellatis, valde obliquis corrugatisque ; lateralibus praelongis, obliquis, 

 lamellatis corrugatisque; margarita vel albti vel ca;rulea et valde iridescente. 



Hah. — China. Sig. Patricio Maria Paz. 



Monocondl(ea Wheatleyi. — Tefta laevi, oblonga, subcompressa, valde in- 

 aequilaterali, antice oblique rotundata, postice truncata ; valvulis subcrassis, 

 antice paulisper crassioribus ; natibus parvis, acuminatis, ad apices minutis- 

 sime undulatis; epidermide lutea, nitida, eradiata; dentibus cardinalibus 

 parvis, erectis, in utroque valvulo uno-tuberculatis ; margarita alba et valde 

 iridescente. 



Eab. — River Tigris, Assyria, Rev. Mr. Beadle, by C. M. Wheatley. 



Contributions to NEOTEOPICAL SAUROLOGY. 

 BY E. D. COPE. 



Phyllodactylus spatulatus. 



Muzzle elongate, rounded, depressed, extending anterior to the orbit once 

 and one-third times the diameter of the latter.- Frontal and nasal regions 

 closely squamnlose tuberculous, each tubercle as large as those that are scat- 

 tered upon the occiput. Superior labials six, the last minute ; inferior labials 

 five. Symphyseal elongate campanuliform in outline, succeeded by three or 

 four transverse series of mental plates. The anterior is composed of three 

 (median smallest), vehich are much longer than broad ; the posterior are 

 hexagonal. About twenty-five rows of abdominal plates, and twenty rows 

 of elongate trihedral dorsal tubercles. Extremities coarsely tuberculous. 

 Length of head to angle of mandible 8 lin. ; from this point to vent, 1 in. 9 

 lin. ; of hinder extremity, 1 in. ; tail ? Above pale yellowish ; a dark brown 

 line from orbit to shoulder; dark brown longitudinal lines, which inosculate 

 on the nape and anterior dorsal region ; on the posterior dorsal and sacral 

 they form cross-bands. Extremities banded. Beneath immaculate. 



Habitat. — Barbadoes. Prof. Theodore Gill coll. 



Anolis ( Acantholis) a r g i 1 1 a c e u s. 



Size small, form stout. Head large, the muzzle short. Canthus rostralis 

 straight, sharp ; facial rugfe very obtuse, uniting a little anterior to the mid- 

 dle of tiie muzzle, and forming a slightly pronounced median keel. Tail one 

 and one-half times the length of the body, slightly compressed and trenchant, 

 though not serrate above ; its scales keeled. No dorsal dermal fold. A slight 

 prebrachial fold. Nares vertical. Orbit large ; tympanic orifice moderate : 

 dorsal and lateral scales minute, equal, except an occasional one a little 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



larger. Abdominal scales rounded, smooth ; those of the extremities smooth. 

 Occipital plate not in contact with superciliaries ; the latter are in contact 

 medially, and number six or seven on each side ; the anterior pair is much 

 the longest, and enclose a subtriangular plate. The second plate on the facial 

 ruga is large, transverse ; the third is large and in contact with that of the 

 other side and with the third plate of the canthus rostralis. Anterior to them 

 is a median plate. The rest of the head plates are small, all are perfectly 

 smooth. Two or three loreal rows. Superior labials six. Palpebrals three 

 or four, transverse, forming an isolated disc. First infralabial large. Goitre 

 well developed. 



In alcohol, above brownish white, with two rows of brown spots on each 

 side ; occasionally a median series of dots. A short, median, nuchal band; 

 two convergent lateral cervical bands ; a dark baud between the eyes. Ex- 

 tremities brown banded. 



Habitat. — Eastern Cuba, (estate of Monte Verde.) From a vllluable collec- 

 tion made there by Mr. Chas. Wright. Mus. Academy Phila. and Smithsonian, 

 (No. 5098.) 



This species has an occasional large granular scale in place of the dermal 

 appendages of the loysianus. In that species the muzzle is more elon- 

 gate ; the third plate of the facial ruga is not in contact with that opposite, 

 or with that of the canthus rostralis ; the scales of the canthus are narrower. 

 There are four or five palpebral plates, never three. The coloration is also 

 different. 



Anolis (Ctenocercns) coelestinus. 



Size medium, form slender. Tail more than twice as long as head and 

 body, cylindrical, the vertebral series of scales largest. Abdominal scales 

 subquadrate, smooth, those of the back and sides subequal, coarsely granu- 

 lar, smooth. No dorsal or nuchal dermal folds. The hinder extremity di- 

 rected forward reaches the ear ; the anterior, four-fifths the distance to the 

 groin. Digital expansions well developed. Goitre large ; a prebrachial fold. 

 Head elongate, front very little concave, nostrils latero-vertical close, to the 

 extremity of the muzzle. Canthus rostralis acute, straight, covered with 

 small scales ; facial rugse none. Head plates all small, keelless. Seven in 

 the superciliary series, the posterior minute ; two rows of scales separate 

 those of one side from those of the other ; they are also well separated from 

 the occipital, which is small oval. Five loreal series. Eight superior labials ; 

 anterior infralabials small, keelless. Palpebrals small, scarcely keeled, sepa- 

 rated from the superciliaries by granules. Length of head and body 2 in. 6 lin.; 

 of posterior extremity 1 in. 4 lin. 



Color above bright bluish green (in alcohol), the extremities bluer. A white 

 or reddish band extends beneath the orbit, through the ear to a short distance 

 beyond the axilla. Above and behind the latter a large black spot extends 

 more or less posteriorly. A reddish tint sometimes pervades parts of the in- 

 ferior surfaces ; otherwise they are greenish white. Tibia and femur indis- 

 tinctly dark cross-banded. Postorbita) and sometimes the loreal and frontal 

 regions blackish. 



Habitat. — Western Hayti. Specimens obtained by Dr. Weinland near 

 Jeremie (No. 1500 Mus., Compar. Zool.) have been kindly lent me by Prof. 

 Agassiz. 



This species takes the place of A. principalis in Hayti. It is the 

 nearest ally of that species, but differs in important particulars, as the 

 smoothness of the abdominal and frontal plates, the smallness of the latter, 

 and the absence of facial rugaj ; the digital expansions are less developed and 

 the nostrils are more anterior. 



Anolis (Anolis) c y b o t e s. 

 Size above medium ; form stout, head massive. Tail much compressed, ser- 



1862.] 




178 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



rulato above. Digital expansions rather narrow. Abdominal scales smooth 

 rounded ; scales of the lateral thoracic region keeled. A strong nuchal der- 

 mal fold and a slight dorsal one. Lateral and dorsal scales minutely granular, 

 except two to four median series, which are larger and keeled. Anterior 

 brachial, antebrachial and tibial, and inferior tibial scales keeled. Angular 

 process of maudibulum prominent. Temporo-occipital region swollen ; occiput 

 with a median, gemmiform, sharply-defmed depression, which is continuous 

 with tlie gutter-like frontal concavity. The facial rugs are well defined, 

 little divergent, including rather a deep longitudinal depression. Nostrils 

 large, lateral ; canthus rostralis sharp, a little curved, depressed aut-eriorly. 

 Superciliary plates large, five on each side, in contact or barely separated 

 medially. Frontal scales rather large, longitudinal, smooth. Occipital plate 

 elongate, small, separated from superciliaries. Seven or eight loreal rows ; 

 seven superior labials ; symphyseals large, first infralabial not large. Tym- 

 panic orifice large. Anterior extremity extended, reaches beyond tlie groin ; 

 the posterior anterior to the orbit. Length of liead to angle of jaw 9 lines ; 

 from angle of mandible to vent 1 in. 8 lin.; hind extremity 2 in. 2 lin. 



General color green, with blackish tints. Posterior extremities sometimes 

 cross-banded. Female with a pale vertebral streak. 



ILtbitat. — Western Hayti ; from near Jeremie, Dr. Weinland. Mus. Compar. 

 Zoology, Cambridge, No. 1501. 



Anolis (Coccoi'ssus) pentaprion. 



Size medium ; form stout. Tail one and a quarter times the length of the 

 head and body, much compressed, subtriaugular in section, the vertebral 

 angle trenchant, serrate ; four basal angles formed by the continued keels of 

 as many series of large scales. Goitre large. Scales of the back and sides 

 equal, minute, the abdominal larger, though small, subgraniform, smooth. 

 Orbits large, auricular orifice small. Head stout, muzzle thick, rounded. 

 Canthus rostralis obtuse anteriorly, facial rugre just traceable posteriorly. 

 Nares near the end of the muzzle, lateral. Occiput covered with numerous 

 irregular smooth plates, which extend between the superciliary series. Plates 

 of the front and muzzle rather small, polygonal, rough, not keeled ; palpe- 

 brals numerous, smooth, three loreal rows ; nine superior labials, nine inferior, 

 the second small. Infralabials small. Extremities stout, their scales small, 

 not keeled ; digital expansions well developed. The anterior extremity does 

 not reach the groin, the posterior scarcely the auricular orifice. Length of 

 head and body 2 in. G 1. ; of tail 3 in. 4 I.; head to ear 8 1. ; hinder extremity 1 in. 2 1. 



Above whitish, tinted with reddish brown, and marbled with brown. E.k- 

 tremities and ta.il pale reddish brown with brown cross-bars. Frontal and 

 occipital regions dark, muzzle pale ; some brown shades beneath the eye on 

 both jaws. Beneath yellowish ; goitre cherry red. 



Habitat. — New Granada, near the river Truando. Discovered by Arthur 

 Schott, Esq., who accompanied the U. S. Expedition under Lieut. Michler. 



The shape of the tail and the subgranular ventral scales place this species 

 in a section of the genus which I call Coccoessus. It is most nearly 

 allied to sect. Gastrotropis, Fitz., in which A. schie dii Wieg. resembles 

 it in many respects ; the form of the muzzle is much as in this species and in 

 A. n e b u I o s u s.* 

 Anolis (Dracontura) 1 i m i f r o n s. 



Tail cylindrical, without a larger median series of scales. Ventral scales 

 smooth. Dorsal and lateral scales granular, rugulose, all equal. Scales of 

 arm, inferior tibia and anterior femur keeled. Neck rather elongate ; eyes 

 large, head broad, very concave in profile, muzzle prominent, truncate, nearly 



* Dr. Gray, Catal. Liz. Brit. Mus., refers A. s a g ra e to this species. They are differ- 

 ent, and typical of different sections of the genus. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 179 



plane above. Nares large, lateral. Frontal concavity elongate deep, its scales 

 numerous, granular. Facial rugse moderately developed, divergent, soon ob- 

 solete, covered by three scales anterior to the seven superciliary, and sepa- 

 rated from the canthus rostralis by larger keeled scales. The canthus is weak, 

 concave. Occipital plate small, oval, surrounded by granular scales, which 

 also separate the siiperciliaries. Palpebrals keeled ; muzzle plates polygonal, 

 tricarinate. Loreal rows about seven ; upper labials eight, inferior seven, 

 infralabials small. Anterior extremity slender, not reaching the groin, the 

 external digit shorter than the second ; posterior extremity reaches the ante- 

 rior margin of the orbit. Auricular orifice large, vertical. Length from muz- 

 zle to axilla 9 1.; from auricle to vent 1 in. 3 1.; of hinder extremity 1 in. 4 1. 



Above bronze brown, beneath rusty white, separation between the two ab- 

 rupt anteriorly ; lips and femora beneath varied with brown. Another speci- 

 men is brownish golden above, light yellow beneath. 



This species differs from fuscoauratus in the uniform size of the 

 dorsal and lateral scales, and the absence of a larger median caudal row. In 

 radulinus, poecilopus and fraseri the ventral scales are keeled. 

 In the last there is no occipital plate, and the second has the scales of the 

 muzzle no larger than those of the front. A. radulinus exhibits a few 

 larger dorsal rows. In general appearance it is quite similar to A. 1 i o n o t u s. 

 It inhabits the same country, viz, : Veragua. Mus. Academy Nat. Sciences, 

 from Mr. R. W. Mitchell. 



Anolis (Dracontura) poecilopus. 



Size medium ; neck and hinder extremities elongate ; head broad, muzzle 

 full, rather prominent. Tail compressed cylindrical, its scales keeled, the 

 median row largest. Abdominal scales small, ovate, keeled ; lateral minute, 

 gradually merging into the dorsal, which are larger, flat, keeled and in nume- 

 rous rows. All the scales of the extremities are keeled, those of the internal 

 surfaces minute, the others flat, not large. The scales of the upper surface 

 of the head are minute, subgranular, rugulose ; those between the canthus 

 rostralis and facial ruga larger. The canthus weakly pronounced, soon obso- 

 lete ; rugcTB slightly developed, bounding a rather deep frontal concavity, 

 which extends between the orbits. Nostrils near the end of the muzzle, 

 lateral. Seven or nine superciliaries bounded internally by granules ; occi- 

 pital minute or wanting. Superior labials nine ; infralabials small. Palpe- 

 brals small, keeled. Loreal series nine or ten. Auricular orifice small, vertical. 

 No dorsal or nuchal fold ; goitre large. Anterior exti-emity reaching groin ; 

 second finger longer than fifth ; posterior extremity reaching end of muzzle ; 

 digital expansions narrow. From muzzle to tympanum 8 lin.; tympanum to 

 vent 2 in.; tail 4 in. 8 lin.; posterior extremity 2 in. 1 lin. 



General color above, brown ; the extremities and digits with numerous light 

 cross-bands ; sides darker, with numerous longitudinal light lines, one com- 

 mencing above the axilla most distinct ; light vertical bands ascend from this 

 to a superior obsolete longitudinal band. In female specimens dark chevron- 

 shaped spots cross the back. Beneath pale yellowish. 



Habitat. — Near Carthagena, and on the Truando, New Grenada. From 

 Lieut. Micheler's collection, made by Arthur Schott. (Sm. No. 4320, 4331.) 



This animal probably most nearly resembles the A. fraseri, Gthr., but 

 that species is said to have but five rows of loreal scales, the fifth finger 

 longer than the second, and different coloration. In general appearance it 

 approaches near to A. 1 i m if rons, fuscoauratus and lionotus. In 

 the last the dorsal scales are much larger and smooth ; the scales of the front 

 and muzzle are also larger. 



Anolis (Dracontura) v i 1 1 i g e r u s. 



Head rather broad, muzzle short. Tail cylindrical, four times the length of 

 the head and body. Anterior extremity just reaching the groin, posterior ex- 

 1862.] 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



tending to the middle or in front of the orbit ; second fin£;er longer than fifth. 

 The latter is large ; tympanic orifice moderate. Nineteen teeth in the supe- 

 rior maxillary bone. Goitre very small. Abdominal scales imbricate sub- 

 acute, keeled ; lateral scales minute ; dorsal scales larger, less than the 

 ventral, flat, keeled, in about twenty rows. Anterior brachial, antebrachial 

 and femoral, superior brachial and tibial, and inferior femoral and tibial 

 scales keeled. Occipital plate not in contact with the superciliaries. The 

 latter are rather large, five or six in number, in contact medially. Facial 

 rugae low, divergent. Frontal depression obpyriform, containing rather large, 

 flat, smooth scales ; scales of the muzzle smaller, carinate. Palpebrals nume- 

 rous, keeled. Canthus rostralis short, acute. Five rows loreal scales ; supe- 

 rior labials eight, inferior seven ; infralabials small. Length of head and 

 body 1 in. 4 lin. ; of tail 5 in. 6 lin. 



Light yellowish brown, median dorsal region and tail reddish brown, crossed 

 by some irregular blackish markings. A longitudinal light lateral band, 

 bounded above and below by a brown one. A brown band from eye to axilla, 

 one above it rising to the nape, one from superciliary region nearly joining 

 one from the opposite side behind the occiput. A band between the eyes and 

 one on the muzzle ; lips varied. A crossed-band on the tibia and femur 

 formed of two united triangles. Beneath golden with a coppery tint. 



Habitat. — Truando region, New Granada. Mr. Schott coll., Lt. Michler's 

 Exped. Mus. Academy ; Smithsonian (No. 4332.) 



This species is much like A. lemurinus in form, but has the larger dor- 

 sal rows more numerous, and a diiferent coloration. From A. chrysolepis 

 it difi'ers in the more numerous series of larger dorsal scales. 

 Anolis (Gastrotropis) radulinus. 



Size small, head not short. Tail cylindrical or slightly compressed, median 

 row of scales a little larger. Ventral scales ovate, keeled ; lateral scales mi- 

 nute ; the dorsal scales larger, flat, keeled, becoming larger medially, where 

 two series are abruptly larger. Occipital distinct, isolated ; superciliaries 

 five, separated by tliree or four rows of minute scales. Facial rug* weak, 

 enclosing a shallow concavity, which is covered with minute, keeled scales. 

 Those outside the rugse and on the muzzle are larger, keeled. Canthus ros- 

 tralis acute, nearly straight, soon obliterated. Nostrils terminal, lateral. 

 Six or seven rows of loreal scales ; labials nine — nine ; infralabials small. 

 Auricular orifice rather large, vertical. Goitre large. Digital dilatations very 

 narrow. Anterior extremity reaching groin ; the posterior to beyond the 

 orbit. Length of head to tympanum 6 lin.; from tympanum to vent 1 in. 3 

 lin.; of tail 3 in. 6 lin. 



Above golden brown, with eight or ten narrow, chevron-shaped cross-lines, 

 the angles directed posteriorly. A lateral series of small white spots, most 

 distinct anteriorly, beneath M'hich is a light longitudinal band, obsolete pos- 

 teriorly. A narrow brown band between the eyes ; extremities banded. Be- 

 neath brownish white. The 9 is bronze brown, the dorsal line sometimes 

 darker. 



Habitat. — Truando region, New Grenada. Lt. Michler Exped. coll. Mus. 

 Academy and Smithsonian (Nos. 4327, 432S.) 



In the minuteness of the interrugal scales this species resembles 11 mi- 

 frons, poecilopus and fraseri. From the first the keeled ventral 

 plates and other peculiarities separate it ; in the second, the frontal and 

 loreal scales are smaller and the large dorsal scales more numerous. The 

 large occipital and coloration will separate it from fraseri. Sallaei, 

 coo peri and cupreus resemble it in form, but all have larger frontal 

 and muzzle plates; in sallaei the large dorsal rows of scales are more 

 numerous. 

 Anolis (Gastrotropis) concolor. 



Anolis refidgens "SchL," Hallow., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1S60, p. 4S0. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCUEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



General form that of A. m a c u 1 a t u s. A strong nuclial fold in larger 

 specimens. Tail cylindrical or slightly compressed. Head elongate, mnzzle 

 rather narrow, nostrils lateral. Canthus rostralis straight, loreal region long, 

 perpendicular. Occipital plate large, not in contact with superciliaries, in a 

 depression which is not defined in the young. Facial rugte not acute, con- 

 vergent anteriorly ; the enclosed depression elongate diamond-shaped, with 

 rather small, more or less keeled scales. Superciliary plates seven, in con- 

 tact or separated by one series of granules medially. Palpebrals numerous, 

 keeled. Loreal rows five or six. Upper and lower labials eight. Infralabials 

 small. Scales of the extremities small, keeled ; abdominal scales keeled ; 

 lateral scales minute, dorsal larger, keeled ; two median rows abruptly largest. 

 Auricular opening moderate, vertical. Digital expansions moderate ; second 

 and fifth fingers nearly equal ; anterior extremity reaches groin ; posterior, 

 middle or anterior part of orbit. 



General color darker or lighter brownish green, the extremities faintly 

 banded. A few dorsal dots in the young. 



Habitat. — Nicaragua. Mr. C. Wright, of Capt. Rodger's Exped., collection 

 Mus. Smithsonian (No. 6055); Phila. Academy. 



The young of this species may be distinguished from A. cupreus Hallow, 

 by the longer muzzle, more prominent facial rugte and nearer approach of the 

 superciliary plates ; from radulinus by the same characters, and by the 

 greater size of the interrugal scales and the coloration. A. cupreus Hallow, 

 is nearly related to A. cooperi Baird, both differing from A. sallaeiin the 

 the less number and uniformity of the rows of keeled dorsal scales. In 

 cooperi the first infralabial is large as in s agr a e, and there is a strong 

 prebrachial fold. The palpebrals are three or four-rowed. In cupreus 

 these are only two rowed, and the infralabials are small. The colors are 

 lighter. 



A. longicaudus Hallowell, described in the memoir referred to at the 

 head of the description of this species, is allied to A. tropidogaster Hallow. 

 Like it, it is a slender animal, the length from the muzzle to the tympanum 

 entering two and a half times, into the distance from the latter point to the 

 groin. The tympanum is, however, very much smaller, the dorsal scales are 

 larger and the facial rugae more strongly pronounced. The head is narrower. 

 Dracontura bivittata, described in the same memoir, belongs to the sub- 

 family of Basiliscinje, where it should be placed next to Thysanodactylus Gray. 

 In proof of this, it may be stated that the external nares are lateral, and the 

 toes broadly margined. From all the genera it differs in its plain occiput, 

 without enlargement or compression, and the total absence of nuchal, dorsal 

 t)r caudal crest. Tail compressed. A transverse gular fold. The species may 

 be called Paraloma bivittata. 



Basiliscus (Cristasaura) n u c h a 1 i s. 



Tail compressed, its superior margin undulate serrate. Dorsal crest low. 

 extending between interscapular and crural regions ; its rays eleven. Helmet 

 highly developed, produced posteriorly, where its outline is sigmoid ; from 

 its posterior extremity to its anterior, which is between the hinder borders of 

 orbits, its margin is more than twice as long as from the last-mentioned posi- 

 tion to the end of the muzzle. It is thin and covered with smooth scales, 

 which are much larger than any on the cranium. Occiput much swollen, its 

 scales smooth ; supraorbital scales keeled. Superciliaries ten on each side, 

 separated by three rows of scales. Facial rugae well developed, enclosing a 

 concavity covered with rough scales. Muzzle scales scarcely keeled. Canthus 

 rostralis acute. Rostral bordered by three plates posteriorly. Labials seven 

 or eight above, nine below. Tympanvim half as large as bony orbit. Two 

 gular folds. Abdominal scales keeled. Dorsal flat, subquadrangular, slightly 

 keeled, larger than lateral. Hinder extremity extends beyond the muzzle. 



1862] 




182 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



From mi;zzle to second gular fold 2 in. ; from fold to vent 3 in. 8 lin. ; from 

 vent to end of tail 16 in. ; length of hinder extremity 5 in. H lin. 



General color olivaceous, paler below. A white (or ?yellow) band from the 

 superior posterior angle of orbit, which extends half way to the helmet. A 

 rusty-brown band extends from above the tympanum to the posterior part of 

 the back. Three transverse black spots on the nape. 



Habitat. — Near Greytown, Nicaragua. Discovered by Dr. Caldwell, who sent 

 specimen 5845 to the Smithsonian Institution. 



Dr. Gray says of his Cristasaura mitrella, that the scales of the crest 

 are smaller than those of the front, and slightly keeled, also that the dorsal 

 crest is high — which is, however, only important specifically when compared 

 with the developement of the helmet. The coloration of that species is also 

 different. It is an inhabitant of Honduras. 



Scartiscus c a d u c u s. 



Char. gen. — Body depressed. A median dorsal keel, which forms a low crest 

 on the nape. Tail slender, compressed, covered with appressed equal verticils 

 of weakly-keeled scales. Digits 5 — 5, without lateral expansions, strongly 

 pectinate inferiorly. Tympanum distinct. Nostrils in a single plate, which 

 is lateral and below the canthus rostralis. Head plates numerous, small, 

 keeled ; interparietal, parietals (in contact) and postparietal only distinguish- 

 able. Pterygoid teeth none ; maxillaries triscuspid. No antepectoral fold. 

 Scales of the body large, flat, caducous, keeled everywhere ; the dorsal in 

 posteriorly convergernt series. No femoral or anal pores. 



In this genus of Iguanidse, there are two pairs of abdominal ribs,* connected 

 by a slight linea alba. In Brachysaurus, which resembles Scartiscus in 

 general appearance, these are more numerous ; the external nares also are 

 superior to the canthus rostralis. In Polychrus, the representative of the 

 Gastropleur type with lateral nostrils, the general form and squamation are 

 totally different. The position of the nostril will distinguish Scartiscus from 

 many Humivagaj (e. g. Liocephalus), and the compressed spineless tail will 

 separate it from others. 



Char, specif. — Labials very narrow ; inferior, to proc. coron. mand. six, 

 superior four, bounded above by a similar series of seven ; symphyseal 

 single. Scales of head everywhere keeled ; two larger superciliary series 

 distinguishable, which are in contact medially. No earlobes. A slight 

 preaxillary fold. A lateral crural keel on each side. Posterior extremities 

 elongate, extending forward to anterior border of orbit. Tibia longer than 

 femur; foot much longer than tibia or than hand and antebrachium. Ex- 

 ternal toe reaching beyond internal. Brachium shorter than antebrachium ; 

 order of digits, first, fifth, second ; third and fourth nearly equal. Whole 

 anterior extremity reaching nearly to groin. Head to posterior border of 

 tympanum equals longest measurement of tibia. 



Color above brown, with numerous dark brown chevrons, the angles di- 

 rected posteriorly ; a narrow, vertical, yellow line from the axilla. Extremi- 

 ties and tail cross-banded. Beneath yellowish brown, the throat darker, 

 light varied. 



Length of head and body to vent 3 in. 3 lin.; of tail 6 ia. 3 lin. ; of anterior 

 extremity 1 in. 6 lin. ; of posterior do. 2 in. 7 lin. 



Habitat. — Paraguay. Mus. Smithsonian (No. 5852). Capt. Page's Exped. 

 coll. 



Liocephalus personatus. 

 Head shields keeled, not lanceolate. First intemasal not in contact with 



* Dr. Fiizinger places Laemanctus among the Gastropleuras, but it seems incorrectly. 

 Laenianctus 1 o n g i p e s is destitute of abdominal ribs. Chauiaelcopsis hernandezii 

 there is one pair whi'^h do not meet on the median line. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 183 



rostral. Six or seven in the supraocular series. Interparietal lanceolate- 

 Across the middle of the nape, between lines continuous with the temporal 

 ridge, eleven rows of scales may be counted. Cheek with rather large keeled 

 scales ; four thick marginal auricular scales. Labials five— five. Prebrachial 

 folds conspicuous. Dorsal crest high, higher upon the origin of the tail. The 

 tail is very much compressed. Posterior extremity reaching tympanum. 

 Length from muzzle to vent 2 in. 11 lin. ; vent to end of tail 5 in, 4 lin. ; 

 greatest depth of tail 4 lin. 



Above light brown, many of the scales with greenish shades ; a few median 

 black spots on the nape. Side of the head, and posteriorly nearly to axilla, 

 also chin and jaw, black. Beneath bluish green, the sides of the abdomen, 

 the hinder extremities and tail, varied with greenish white scales. 



Habitat. — Hayti (near Jeremie). Sent in a valuable collection made by 

 Dr. D. F. Weinland to Prof. Agassiz. Mus. Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, 

 JVlass. 



The "West Indian Liocephali, with smooth ventral scales, jwssess either 

 three pairs of fronto-nasal plates in addition to the supranasals, or only two. 

 Of the former description are L. carinatus Gray (microlophits Coct. Bibr.) 

 L. vittatus Hallow, {schreibersii Gray), L. macropus n. sp., L. schre i- 

 b e r s i i and L. melanochlorusn. sp. Those of the latter kind are L. 

 r a V i c e p s n. sp., L. t r i g e m i n a t u s n. sp. and the subject of the preceed- 

 ing description. 



Liocephalus trigeminatus. 



Head shields slightly keeled, not lanceolate ; first internasal not in contact 

 with rostral ; six or seven supraoculars ; interparietal lanceolate. Ten nuchal 

 rows. Nuchal and dorsal crest low, caudal elevated. Labials six — five ; 

 temporal scales large ; two principal marginal auricular. Lateral neck folds 

 very strong. Post auricular scales not granular. Posterior extremity not 

 quite reaching orbit. Tail much compressed. Length from muzzle to vent 

 2 in. 1 lin. ; vent to end (?) of tail 2 in. 10 lin. ; of hinder extremity 1 in. 

 6 lines. 



Above olivaceous brown, with four narrow, transverse, blackish brown 

 bars, bordered behind with lighter ; the posterior between the groins. Tail 

 spotted above, a light lateral band from the orbit to the base of the tail, and 

 another from the ear to the groin ; between these brown with a few vertical 

 blackish brown bars. Beneath dirty greenish white, chin spotted with 

 brownish. 



^u6.— Hayti, near Jeremie. Dr. Weinland's Coll. in Mus. Compar. Zool. 



Liocephalus r a v i c e p s. 



First internasal often in contact with rostral. Head scales generally 

 strongly keeled. Posterior fronto-nasals remarkably large. Six or seven 

 supraoculars. Interparietal elongate triangular, short. Fifteen nuchal rows, 

 (counted as in p e r s o n a t u s). Nuchal dorsal and caudal crest equal, little 

 developed. Tail nearly cylindrical. Labials five — six ; cheek scales rather 

 small ; five large marginal auriculars ; post auriculars not granular. AH the 

 scales of the body small. Posterior extremity reaching ear or angle of mouth. 

 Length from muzzle to vent 3 in. 1 lin. ; from vent to end of tail 4 in. 4 lin. ; 

 of posterior extremity 2 in. 



Above yellowish brown, with many short, narrow, black longitudinal lines, 

 which are sometimes arranged as a double series of dorsal spots. A dark 

 band from the eye to the groin, which becomes obsolete in age, and is bounded 

 beneath by a rather broad yellowish vitta which is permanent. Beneath yel- 

 lowish, under surfaces of limbs and abdomen and sides as far as the jaws 

 varied with ? yellow (white in spirits) scales. Tail with brown chevron- 

 shaped crossbands. Top of head light yellowish brown. 



Hah. — Eastern Cuba. Mr. C. Wright discoverer. Mus. Smithsonian (No. 

 4162) and Academy Phila. 



1862.] 




18-4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Lioceplialus macropu s. 



Head plates broad, smooth or keeled ; first internasal not touching rostral. 

 Six or seven supraoculars. Labials six — six ; cheek plates rather sruall ; four 

 marginal auriculars ; postauriculars granular. Nuchal rows nineteen. Crest 

 low, equal. Tail nearly cylindrical. Posterior extremity quite or nearly 

 reaching end of muzzle. Dimensions of largest specimen : from muzzle to vent 

 2 in. 9 1. ; from vent to end of tail 4 in. 3 1. 



Above olive, often with a metallic lustre ; sometimes brownish. A trans- 

 verse interscapular and crural pale-bordered spot, which is often indistinct. 

 A blackish baud extends from the orbit to the groin, mostly varied with white 

 near the axilla — obsolete posteriorly. Beneath yellowish or greenish, the 

 gular region sometimes streaked with black. 



Hah. — Eastern Cuba. Mr. Chas. Wright has sent specimens to the Smith- 

 sonian Institution, which has presented some to the author. 



This species is much like the L. vittatus, but differs in the greater 

 breadth and smoothness of the head-platus, especially of the supranasals and 

 frontonasals, and in the granular nature of the scales for some distance pos- 

 terior to the auricular opening; its size is less, more resembling the ravi- 

 c e p s in this respect. 



The species first named by Dr. Edw. Hallowell, as Holotropis vittatus* has 

 been apparently mistaken by Dr. J. E. Gray for the L. schreibersii (fVjs- 

 tlnotus schreibersii Graveuhorst). The head plates are very lanceolate, and 

 strongly keeled, the crest low and equal. It is perhaps the most abundant 

 species of the genus in Cuba, though the carinatus only is represented in 

 de la Sagra's work, where it is called Holotropis microlophus. The latter spe- 

 cies resembles yet exceeds the mac r opus in the breadth of its head-plates ; 

 they further difi'er in being perfectly smooth. 



Liocephalus melanochlorus. 



Head scales more or less keeled, numerous ; anterior extremities of supra- 

 nasals cut off, sometimes three anterior internasals ; always four prefrontals. 

 Six supraorbitals ; interparietal lanceolate. Labials six — six. Two prominent 

 marginal auriculars ; postauriculars squamous. Scales of the back large, the 

 keels unusually strong ; nuchal rows eleven. Crest well developed, highest 

 on the tail. Tail compressed, the scales of the lower surface keeled. Poste- 

 rior extremity reaching the orbit. Length from muzzle to vent 3 in. 7 lin. ; 

 from vent to end of tail 7 in. 



General color light green, principally appearing above in two dorsal bands 

 and in the interspaces of a series of about ten transverse black bands ex- 

 tending between them. These become more or less confluent in old males, as 

 do also sometimes the vertical bars on the sides, which are often present. 

 Top of head brownish. Posteriorly beneath spotted with greenish white 

 scales ; gular region coarsely reticulated with black. Extremities dusky green 

 above. 



Hab. — Hayti, near Jeremie. Mus. Compar. Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. 

 Dr. D. F. Weinland. 



Tretioscincus castanicterus. 



Char. (jen. — Scales large, those of the tail and median dorsal rows keeled. 

 Supranasals none. Internasal broad ; but two supraoculars ; interparietal 

 large. Gular region covered by the large infralabials. Inferior eyelid with a 

 transparent disc. Extremities moderately developed, digits unequal, four — 

 five. A series of femoral pores medially separated. Tail cylindrical. 



Char, specif. — Sixteen rows of scales on the body, of which the median 

 dorsal pair are weakly keeled posteriorly ; on the crural region the included 

 rows are all keeled ; the carinte are stronger on the tail. Two large marginal 



* Proc. Acad. Nat Sci. Phila. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



and two median triangular preanal plates. Five pectoral plates in an arched 

 transverse series. Three pairs of infralabials, one transverse mental, one 

 symphyseal. Labials 8—6 ; eye over the fifth upper. One loreal, two nasals, 

 nostril between ; the anterior slightly bent upon the surface of the muzzle. 

 Fronto-nasals transverse, in contact ; frontal nearly parallel-sided, obtuse- 

 angled before and behind. Fronto-parietals longer than broad, in contact ; 

 interparietal shield-shaped, its point projecting behind the borders of the pa- 

 rietals ; all the head plates impressed-punctate. Posterior extremity scarcely 

 reaching the elbow of the appressed anterior limb ; extent of digits in the 

 order, first, second, fifth, third, fourth. Femoral pores six on each side. Tail 

 plates smooth beneath. Length from muzzle to vent 1 in. 9 1., (tail muti- 

 lated) ; of fore limb 6 lines ; of hinder, 9 lines. 



Color above and on the sides dark chestnut ; a bright yellow band, which 

 commences on each side of the base of the tail, extends anteriorly round the 

 outer border of the supraocular plates, and meets its fellow on the rostral ; in- 

 ternally it is dark bordered on the head. Beneath yellowish, the scales bor- 

 dered with chestnut ; chin immaculate ; under surface of tail yellow spotted. 



The discovery of this little lizard is particularly interesting, as exhibiting 

 femoral pores for the first time among the Scincidje. In other points it nearly 

 resembles the genus Heteropus of Fitzinger. One specimen in the Museum of 

 the Philadelphia Academy is labelled as having come from New Grenada. 



Mabuia fulgida. 



Dr. Girard has regarded the genus Mabuia as peculiarly American, the spe- 

 cies from the Pacific Islands formerly placed in it belonging more properly to 

 the genus which he first defined under the name Emoa, (but which Dr. Gray 

 had previously called Emoea), and the East Indian type probably remaining 

 under Dr. Gray's Riopa (except the M. e 1 e g an s Gray). This view cannot 

 be considered as fully established, at least ,as regards the latter group, for 

 Prof. Gill has discovered in the island of Barbadoes a species (Mabuia 1 a n- 

 ceolata) which, in weakness of extremities and cylindrical form, nearly 

 approaches the M. (Riopa) punctata. The genus Emcea is no longer Poly- 

 nesian, for a species of it has been discovered in Paraguay by the naturalists 

 connected with the government expedition sent thither. 



The history of the American Mabuiae is in a state of some confusion, pro- 

 bably en account of the want of close observation in the discrimination of the 

 species. The following table exhibits the relations of those which appear to 

 be truly distinct. 



I. Species in which there are twenty-six or fewer rows of scales on the body : 

 M. brevirostris Gnnther, from Mexico ; M. p u n c t a t a, India, and per- 

 haps the other species placed by Gray in Riopa, viz., M. hardwickii and 

 ruppellii; R. sundevallii Smith, from South Africa, is not stated to 

 possess a transparent eyelid, and hence may not belong to this genus. Pos- 

 sibly M. e 1 e g a n s Gray should be placed here. 



II. Species in which there are thirty or more rows of scales on the body : 



A. Eye over the seventh superior labial agi li s.* 



B. Eye over sixth superior labial. 



a. Internasal semidiscoid, its posterior outline straight, s 1 o a n e i. 

 a a. Internasal rhombic ; 



b. As long as broad, in contact with rostral. 

 Muzzle narrow ; the yellow marginal band bordered with 



brown above, on head fulgida. 



6 b. Broader than long, rarely or not touching rostral. 

 c. Frontal acute anteriorly. 

 Four brown bands on the neck ; thirty-four rows of scales, cuprescens. 



• Vid. Girard Herpetol. U. S. Expl. Exped. p. 261, for synonymy and observations. 



1862.] 13 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY Oi" 



Two brown bands on neck, thirty-two rows of scales unimarginata. 



c c. Frontal truncate anteriorly. 



Scale slarge Surinam ensis. * 



C. Eye over fifth superior labial. 



Thirty-four rows of scales, head acute aenea. f 



Thirty rows of scales. 

 Elongate ; head acute ; appressed extremities not touch- 

 ing lanceolata. 



Stout; head short ; appressed extremities meeting cepedii.J 



Mabuia fulgida is perhaps the most abundant species in Jamaica, where 

 it has been seen and described by Mr. Grosse under the name of M. a g i 1 i s. 

 That the agilis of Dr. Gray is this species is not improbable, though that au- 

 thor has alluded to South American specimens, and quoted synonymy per- 

 taining to the South American species, the original agilis, which Grirard's des- 

 cription shows to be distinct. 



The scales of the median nuchal rows are of unusual breadth. The head is 

 narrow, continuous with the neck, and the muzzle is depressed and acute. The 

 scales have a metallic refulgence, in fresh specimens strongly golden cupreous. 

 There are many small black spots on the dorsal region. The lateral stripe 

 extends from the end of the muzzle, and is black ; its yellow superior and in- 

 ferior borders are brightest anteriorly, the former extending round the muzz]e, 

 and having a brown inner border. The tail is speckled with blackish brown, 

 and the extremities are barred with the same ; lips and beneath yellowish. 

 Specimens probably exist in most of the larger museums. 

 Mabuia cuprescens. 



Body short, gradually tapering into the narrow acute head. Length of 

 muzzle from canthus of eye a little greater than width between anterior mar- 

 gins of orbits. Supranasals in contact over rostral. Frontonasal rhombic, 

 broader than long. Frontal not truncate, its greatest width three quarters its 

 length. Four supraoculars. Anterior border of interparietals angular : 

 parietals in contact posteriorly ; postparietals well developed. Superior 

 labials eight, six beneath eye ; with the seventh the largest. Scales smallest 

 on sides, in thirty-four rows. Seven marginal prenasals. Extremities touch- 

 ing when extended. Length from muzzle to vent 3 in. ; from vent to end of 

 tail 5 in. ; hinder limb 1 in. ; fore limb 9 lin. ; muzzle to ear 7 lin. Gen- 

 eral color above iridescent brown or coppery, darkest on the median six rows 

 of scales. A brown band extends from the muzzle to the groin, covering three 

 and a half scales on the neck, one and two halves on the side. It is bounded 

 above and beneath by broad gray bands, of which the superior shades into the 

 dorsal color, except where bounded above by a narrow brown band which is 

 most distinct on the nape, though it extends on the head-plates and is trace- 

 able on the back. The lower light band is margined inferiorly by a darker 

 shade, which becomes a band between the rictus and axilla. Tail pale gray : 

 beneath whitish. 



Hab. — St. Thomas. From Mr. A. H. Riise, a gentleman whose valuable 

 collections have been for some time adding much to our knowledge of the 

 zoology of the West Indies. 



A very pretty species resembling the aenea in form, and the number 

 of rows of its scales. It has four supraoculars instead of three, the frontal ie 

 not truncate anteriorly, the eye rests upon the sixth not fifth superior labial. 

 The coloration is diflferent. 



• Hallowell, Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc. 



t " Scinque (appele Anolis de terre et Mabouia dans les Antilles) Cuvier." 



X Eumeces mabuia Dum., Bibr., as Dr. Gray has pointed out. 



jl have supposed a specimen from the Paris Museum labelled as Eumeces mabuia 

 from Marie Galante, to belong lo the M. aenea, while new Grenadian and Trinidad 

 epecimeuB have been referred to the c e p e di i. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



Mabuia animarginata. 



Form slender, head as wide as the neck to the orbits, the muzzle not elon- 

 gate ; scales (in the specimen described) in thirty-tvro rows. Supranasals in 

 contact ; frontal elongate, not truncate anteriorly ; a postnasal. Supraoculars 

 four ; superior labials eight, eye over sixth. Appressed limbs overlapping. 

 Seven marginal anal plates. From muzzle to tympanum 6 lines ; from 

 muzzle to vent 2 in. 7 lin. ; from vent to end of tail 3 in. 10 lin., anterior ex- 

 tremities 9 lin. 



Above rather dark brown ; a narrow black band extends from the end of 

 the muzzle to the groin, which has a bright yellow inferior border. Beneath 

 this the sides are brown. Abdomen yellowish. 



Hah. — Panama. 



This species resembles strongly the ce p e d i i and a e n e a. 



Mabuia lanceolata. 



Body narrow, head lanceolate, narrow, the distance from the muzzle to the 

 brachium nearly two-thirds that from the latter point to the groin. Frontal 

 breadth less than length of muzzle anterior to orbit. Internasal nearly as 

 long as broad, in contact with rostral, and frontal. Four supraorbital ; fronto- 

 parietals divaricate on account of the intervention of the angle of the inter- 

 parietal. Seven upper labials, eye over fifth. Lateral head plates narrow. 

 Extremities weak, not touching when extended upon the sides. Tail cylindri- 

 cal at base, compressed at its middle with a large median series of scales above 

 as is frequently seen in this member when reproduced. From muzzle to 

 tympanic meatus 5 lin., meatus to vent 2 in. 2 1. Tail mutilated ; anterior 

 extremity 7 1., posterior 11 1. 



General color iridescent olivaceous ; no lateral band ; sides of body, neck 

 and jugulum with numerous narrow black streaks. Labial and infralabials 

 yellowish margined with black ; head shields sometimes with darker varia- 

 tions. 



This very distinct species was discovered by my friend Prof. Theodore Gill, 

 in the Island of Barbadoes. This gentleman has made a valuable collec- 

 tion of Trinidad reptiles, through which the knowledge of the fauna of that 

 Island will soon be increased. 



Emoea f renat a. 



Head distinct ; muzzle from anterior canthus to eye longer than breadth of 

 frontal region. Appressed extremities over-lapping. Auricular meatus with- 

 out lobes. Eight or nine upper labials, eye over sixth or seventh. Four 

 supraorbitals. Interparietal nearly trigonal. Frontoparietal broadly trian- 

 gular, nearly as long as frontal ; the latter narrowly truncate posteriorly, in 

 contact with internasal anteriorly. This plate is rhombic, broader than long. 

 Supranasals in contact behind rostral. Nostril near the middle of nasal plate. 

 Scales in thirty or thirty-two rows. Length from muzzle to ear 4 lin. ; 

 muzzle to vent 2 in. 6 1. ; posterior extremities 11 lin. 



Above bright olive, with golden reflections on the head. Brownish spots 

 produce a darker shade on the posterior part of the back. An irregularly 

 margined brownish black band extends from the end of the muzzle to the 

 groin ; it is margined above and below by lighter. Superior labials yellow. 

 Beneath yellowish. 



Hah. — Paraguay. Mus. Smithsonian (5855) and Acad. Nat. Sci. Discovered 

 by Mr. Wood of the U. S. Expedition up the River Paraguay. 



This is the only species of the genus which does not inhabit some part of 

 the Polynesian or Malaysian Archipelagos. It constitutes the nearest ap- 

 proach to the genus Mabuia. Seven species of Emoea have been enumerated 

 by Dr. Ghas. Girard, in the Herpetology of the U. S. Exploring Expedition 

 under Commodore Wilkes.* 



* Page 263. 



1862.] 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OV 



Diploglossus stenurus. 



Sides vertical : outline of body contracted at axillae ; head distinct, muzzle 

 obtuse : tail depressed at base, much compressed throughout the remainder 

 of its length, twice as long as from vent to opposite auricle. Extremities 

 pressed to the sides not meeting ; toes compressed, very unequal. Scales in 

 forty -two longitudinal series, each with 26 lines and a strong median keel. From 

 orbit to end of muzzle equal to width between orbits. Postoccipital smaller 

 than interoccipital. Five supraorbitals. Internasal longer than in D. 

 occiduus, nine-sided, the anterior angle right, the latero-posterior pro- 

 duced. Lateral borders of frontal curved. A rhombic postnasal ; twofrenals 

 longer than high ; nine supralabials, suborbital over 6th and 7th ; four pairs 

 of large infralabials. Maxillary and mandibular teeth subbicuspid, with an 

 antero-lateral groove. Length from muzzle to vent 5 in. 10 1. ; tail 9 in. 1 

 lin. ; posterior extremity 2 in. 



Color above brown, with occasional spots formed by a deeper brown scale. 

 Sides with vertical undulate light bars, darker bordered, which are subdivided 

 superiorly so as to form longitudinal series of light spots. Top of head uni- 

 form. Tail with light vertical bars. Beneath yellowish. 



Hab. — Hayti. Found near Jeremie, by Dr. A. F. Weinland, whose collec- 

 tion is in Prof. Agassiz splendid Museum at Cambridge. Beside species 

 described in this memoir. Dr. Weinland obtained the types of the previously 

 unknown genera Panolopus and laltris. 



In this species and the D. occiduus( CelestusOr.), in the Oneyda s a g r a e 

 (Diploglossus -part. Gray, ) and Panolopus costatus, I have observed that 

 the slender quasi- squamous terminal third of the tongue, is retractile within 

 the other portion, which covers it as a sheath. This is not mentioned by 

 the French herpetologists ; Wiegmann does not mention it in Herpetologia 

 Mexicana, but says in Archiv f. Naturgesch. 1837, p. 129, " * lingua * sub- 

 parte basali, aquamarum linguam forma referenti, qnasi emergente.'' It is a 

 structure probably characteristic of the Diploglossinae. It does not occur 

 in Siderolamprus, which is allied to Plestiodon, though resembling Diplo- 

 glossus in the plating of the head. 



On Neosorez albibarbis. 

 BY E. D. COPE. 



Of the twenty well distinguished species of shrews which Prof. Baird,* 

 enumerates as inhabiting the United States, one only exhibits that peculiar 

 medication of structure which is indicative of his genus Neosorex. This animal, 

 the N. navigator, Cooper, has been found in Washington Territory. It 

 is, therefore, a matter of some interest that the present article introduces to no- 

 tice a second species which the author discovered at the Profile Lake, in the 

 Franconia Mountains, New Hampshire. In September, 1859, two specimens 

 were seen swimming in the Lake about forty feet from the bank : their motion 

 was undulatory, their backs alternately appearing above, and disappearing 

 beneath the surface of the water. They were caught under stones upon the 

 shore, where they had taken refuge. This aquatic habit, so little known 

 among American Soricinse, would be inferred from comparison with the water- 

 loving Crossopodes of Europe, where we find the feet similarly fringed with 

 a border of stiflf hairs. 



N. albibarbis as compared with the navigator has a shorter tail, 

 and a shorter hind foot. The color of the thorax and abdomen is also much, 

 darker. 



2 5—5 4—4 



Dental formula . The internal process of the superior incisor 



2 2—2 3—3 



• In vol. viii. of the Pacif. R. R. Repu 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



k one-third of its length distant from the tip : the basal is well developed, 

 and nearly equal to the first premolar. Second and first premolars nearly 

 equal ; fourth larger than third ; fifth very small, wedged between the molar 

 and premolar, its crown oval, with a faint transverse line of coloration. All 

 the other teeth are tipped with bright chestnut, those of the mandible most 

 extensively, especially the incisors, in which the whole superior border is 

 colored. First superior molar scarcely larger than second and third. Inferior 

 incisors with indistinct lobes. First premolar small, very oblique ; second 

 larger, little oblique, bicuspid. First molar largest. Muzzle slender, de- 

 pressed, probably less elongate than inN. navigator. Distance between 

 the ocular fissures contained once and a half times in the distance between 

 the same and end of the muzzle. A styloid angular process of the mandibu- 

 lum. The whiskers are long — the anterior directed downward and forward, 

 the posterior extending as far as the margin of the helix of the ear. The 

 auricle is directed backwards and closely appressed to the head : the length 

 from antitragus to border of helix is equal to the width between the centres 

 of the orbits. The superior and inferior portions of the helix are closely 

 folded longitudinally upon it, the inferior fold most extensive. The anti- 

 tragus is large, its anterior border folded backward, the whole closely cover- 

 ing the meatus. Antihelix vertical, short, folded backwards. The posterior, 

 and external anterior faces of the helix are covered with long dark hairs like 

 those of the body ; the other portions of the auricle are heavily fringed with 

 the same. Fur, upon the middle of the side about three lines long. Tail 

 obtusely tetragonal, as long as the head and body. The hairs are stiff, flat- 

 tened, equal ; they form a pencil at the tip. A close fringe extends along the 

 inner and outer borders of the palms and soles and exterior digits ; a slighter 

 fringe occurs on the border of the median digits. The claws are acute, short. 

 The anterior foot is contained one and two-thirds times in the length of the 

 posterior. In the latter there is a depressed tubercle at the base of the in- 

 ternal digit, one at the base of the second, and one at the base of the fissure 

 between the fourth and last. There is a compressed tubercle at the base of 

 the third digit, and two on the metatarsus. The arrangement of tubercles on 

 the palm is similar, except that they are more depressed, and close together. 

 Length of head 1 in. 2^ lin., of body 1 in. 6 1., of tail 1 in. 9 1., of fore foot 

 4^1., of hind foot 8| 1. 



The general color is black, with a tinge of brown ; this tinge is more ap- 

 parent on the abdomen, and most upon the posterior gular region ; anterior 

 gular region and chin nearly white, lightest anteriorly. Tail unicolor. 



On Lacerta echinata and Tilic[aa dura. 

 BY E. D. COPE. 

 Lacerta (Zootoca) echinata. 



Scales nearly granular on the sides and nape of the neck. They increase 

 in size posteriorly, becoming rhombic, and having strong keels parallel with 

 the median line. Abdominal plates in six series, transverse, except the 

 posterior portion of the median two series, which are longitudinal. Gular scales 

 in cross series, coarsely granular, the posterior largely. Eight plates on the ante- 

 pectoral fold, preceded by six or seven smaller. Four series of brachial 

 plates, two anterior ; the superior of these is the largest of all. One antero- 

 internal antebrachial series : the external and posterior scales of the ante- 

 brachium are keeled, as are also those of the tibia and femur. Anterior 

 femoral series five, the second (from above) largest. Femoral pores fourteen, 

 large, in the posterior parts of the plates. Two tibial rows, external larger, 

 composed of six plates, of which the median three are nearly equal. Marginal 

 preanals, one very large, transverse, two small on each side. The former is 

 1862.] 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



bordered anteriorly by a curved series of six small plates. Plates of the tail 

 strongly keeled above and below, the margins and keels of those of the 

 superior halves of the whorls from the tenth (counting from vent) to the 

 twenty-sixth greatly produced, forming flattened trihedral spines. Temple 

 with flattened, slightly keeled scales. Superior labials eight, last minute, eye 

 separated from the large sixth by a chain of small suborbitals. Frenal and pre- 

 frenal well developed ; prenasals larger than postnasals, in contact medially. 

 Internal longer than broad ; frontonasals large, in contact ; frontal more than 

 half as broad as long ; frontoparietals longer than broad, in contact with a 

 truncate cuneiform interparietal. Parietals large, as long as the anterior four 

 upper labials. An elongate semicircular inter-post parietal. Inferior eyelid 

 scaled. Tympanic meatus, large, vertical. Inferior labials four, narrow ; in- 

 fralabials four, large, two anterior in contact with those of the other ramus. 

 Teeth as in other species tricuspid. Length from symphysis to antepectoral 

 fold 1 in. 6 1., from fold to vent, 2 in. 7 lin., from vent to end of tail 10 in. 

 6 1. Anterior extremity 1 in. 6 1. : posterior, 1 in. 11 lin. Above bluish- 

 green with about fifteen blackish, cross bands ; those upon the nape and rump 

 are narrow, the others broad, dark bordered. Beneath yellowish. Head 

 shaded with yellowish. 



Hab. — West Africa, Museum Smithsonian, (No. 5995.) 

 The spinous swelling upon the tail of this species is its most characteristio 

 peculiarity. 

 Tiiiqua dura. 



Body stout, tetragonal ; sides vertical. Tail tetragonal at base. Head dis- 

 tinct, muzzle narrow, with vertical sides. Rostral plate covering the tip of 

 the muzzle like a cup, its posterior border straight. Nostril in the middle of 

 a subquadrangular nasal. A pair of large supranasals, longer that broad, ex- 

 tensively in contact medially : an elongate frontonasal connects the supra- 

 nasal with the supraocular on each side ; it is separated from its fellow by a 

 shorter pentagonal internasal. One or two minute freno-nasals ; an elongate 

 freno-ocular bounding the second and third superior labial. Vertical (or 

 frontal) elongate cuneiform, truncate anteriorly, extensively in contact with 

 fronto-nasals. Fronto-parietals and parietals moderate ; interparietal cunei- 

 form acute, angled anteriorly. Two crescentic postparietals on each side. 

 Four supraoculars. All superior head plates longitudinally rugose. Six superior 

 labials, four under middle of orbit. Temporal region covered with large 

 keeled scales, the tympanic meatus appearing as a small slit behind the free 

 border of one of the posterior. Thirty rows of scales round the body, the 

 dorsal and ventral in longitudinal rows, the lateral in oblique series which are 

 directed upward and backward ; they are unicarinate, the dorsal tricarinate, 

 the keels very strong. Four large marginal preanals. Three large in- 

 fralabials on each side, beside mental and symphyseal, all in contact with in- 

 ferior labials ; of the latter there are six, the anterior small. Digits unequal. 

 Hinder extremity reaching the elbow ; the scales of its external surfaces strongly 

 keeled, as are those of the fore limb ; tail (reproduced) covered with strongly, 

 keeled scales which form on the upper surface four strong continuous ridges. 

 Length from muzzle to axilla, 9.5 lin. ; from axilla to vent 1 in. 2 1. 



Above dark rusty, the head and a broad interscapular cross-band, also a 

 median dorsal series of spots, and five or six rather large dorso-lateral spots, 

 chestnut. Beneath and upper lip, rusty yellow. 



Hab. — Western Africa, Museum Smithsonian, (No. 5996). 

 This species is not to be considered a Euprepis, on account of the squamous 

 inferior eyelid : it is quite diflferent from the Tiiiqua rufesceus in the much 

 stronger carination, the more compressed head, minute auricular opening, and 

 different arrangement of head-plates. 



This species and the preceding, as well as several others previously described 

 iu these Proceedings, must be added to the catalogues of West African rep- 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 191 



tiles, recently published by Drs. Gray and Dumeril. Of these may be men- 

 tioned the crocodile Osteolaemus tetraspis, the turtle Aspidonectes 

 aspilus, the tree-frog Hyperolius fulvivittatus and the serpent 

 Dasypeltis carinata (Dipsas carlnata Hallow). M, Dumeril has united 

 many of the supposed species which have been described as distinct ; he has, 

 however, not noticed Dr. Giinther's identification of Hallowell's Heteronotus 

 triangularis with his Graya silurophaga. As both the names for this genus 

 have been previously employed, 1 have called it Glaniolestes in the " Hand- 

 book to the Museum, Philadelphia Academy." 



On the Classification and Synonymy of the recent species of PHOLADIDSI. 

 BY GEORGE "W. TRYON, JR. 



In the year 1851, Dr. John Edward Gray proposed a very excellent arrange- 

 ment of the genera of shells included by earlier conchologists in Pholas and 

 Teredo.* This arrangement has received the approval of most of the subse- 

 quent authors, who have treated on the subject, including Fischer, (Journ. 

 Conchyl., 2d ser., iii. iv.), H. and A. Adams, (Genera of Recent Mollusca,) and 

 Chenu, (Manuel, tome 2.) 



S. P. Woodward, however, in hisadmirableTreatise on Conchology, part second, 

 makes the following disposition of the Pholad es: 



Genus Pholas (including Dactylina, Barnea, Talona, etc. 



" The differences in the dorsal shields are only of specific value." 



Genus Pholadidea, subgenera Martesia, Jouannetia, Parapholas. 



Genus Xylophaga. 



Mr. P. P. Carpenter, in his various works on the West Coast Mollusca, fol- 

 lows Woodward's arrangement. 



The only other modern classification of the family with which I am ac- 

 quainted, is that contained in Swainson's Malacology, which is as follows : 



Order DITHYRA. 

 Tribe MACROTRACHI^. 



Family PHOLID.^. 



Genera Aspergillum, Clavagella, Fistclana, Gastroch.-ena, Pholadomya, 

 Pholas, PholidjEa, Martesia, Xylophaga, Tkredo, Teredisa. 



I am much inclined to think that more than merely specific value should be 

 attached to the number, form and position of the accessory valves, and I have 

 therefore adhered in the main to Dr. Gray's arrangement. 



The Pholades are monographed by Sowerby, Thes. Conch., ii. 1849. 

 Chenu, 111. Conchyl. ; and Hanley, Desc. Cat., besides which, scattered de- 

 scriptions are contained in the works of numerous ancient and modern authors. 



For very full and satisfactory anatomical descriptions of the animals of 

 PHOLADID.E, see 



Poll. Testacea utriusque Sicilias. 



Deshayes. Exploration Scientifique de FAlgerie. Mollusques. 



Fischer. Journal de Conch. 2d ser., vols. iii. and iv. 



The Pholades inhabit all parts of the world, and many of the species 

 have a geographical range much surpassing that of the generality of bivalve 

 mollusca; and the supporters of the theory of the specific distinctness of all 



* An Attempt to Arrange the Species of PHOLADID.1E into Natural Groups, by J. E. 

 Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 2d ser., viii. p. 380, 1851. 



1862.] 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



the Mollusca of the Pacific coast of America from that of the Atlantic, must 

 admit that in this family, at least, no such barrier exists. This wide distribu- 

 tion has doubtless been caused, in a great degree, by the circumstances of 

 habitation of several of the species, which seem to select floating timber for 

 their abode. In these habitations they appear to sustain those vicissitudes of 

 temperature which so generally circumscribe the Marine Testacea, except 

 deep-sea species, to restricted zones of latitude ; but it is exceedingly surpris- 

 ing that the larger species, which naturally make their abode in stone or mud, 

 do not appear to be any more restricted in habitat than the others. In illus- 

 tration of this subject, the following species and their range are cited : 



Pholas cos tata, L. New Bedford, Mass. Mexico. Mediterranean. 



Pholas truncata, Say. Atlantic coast from Nova Scotia to Florida. Peru. 

 Chili. 



Zirphiea c r i s p a t a, L, Europe. United States. West coast (teste Car- 

 penter.) 



Martesia s t r i a t a, L. Europe. West Indies. Philippine Islands. 



The manner in which the animals of Pholas excavate the holes in rocks, 

 wood and hard clay, in which they reside, has long proved a puzzling ques- 

 tion to naturalists, and various theories have been started in explanation. 

 The hypothesis of the evolution of an acid or solvent to eat away the surface 

 of limestone rocks, was met with the powerful objection that the delicate 

 valves of the animal itself would be equally liable to attack, and when it was 

 found that the Pholas, not restricting its operations to carbonate of lime, exca- 

 vated with equal facility surfaces on which acid has no effect, — gneiss, for in- 

 stance the " solvent theory" received its death-blow. The use of the valves 



with their sharp imbrications in effecting the work of excavation is forbidden 

 by their frequently perfect state, even when contained in the hardest sub- 

 stances; (exemplified by a piece of extremely hard gneissic rock from the 



coast of France, containing a magnificent specimen of Dactylina dactylus, 

 with its imbricated ribs sharp and perfect. Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci.) 



The anterior part of the animal of Pholas has a granulated surface, caused 

 by the presence of numerous siliceous particles ; and this is probably the in- 

 strument which the animal employs in its work. Recent investigations have 

 shown that these granules are renewed as fast as they are worn off by attrition 

 with the surrounding surface, thus forming an analogy with the tongue of the 

 Gasteropoda. The young shells of Pholadidae frequently differ much from the 

 adult and this difference has caused the description of many of these as dis- 

 tinct species ; the synonymy of the family is further confused bj' the redescrip- 

 tion of species prosured from stations far distant from the original localities. 



Dr. Gray includes in the family Pholadidae, three subfamilies, which are thus 

 characterized : — 



1. Pholadin^. Dorsal muscle attached by one or two dorsal shelly valves. 

 Cavity in which the animal lives not lined with a regular shelly tube enclosing 

 the valves. 



2. ZiRPHiEiNA. Dorsal muscles only covered with a horny or coriaceous 

 epidermis. The cavity in which they live not lined with a regular shelly tube 

 enclosing the valves. 



3. Teredinina. Dorsal muscles covered with a coriaceous epidermis. Cavity 

 in which they live lined with a regular shelly tube surrounding the valves. 



The great differences between Pholas and Teredo (strengthened by Dr. 

 Gray's recent discoveries respecting T. giganteus) have induced me to 

 separate them into distinct families, one containing two, the other three sub- 

 families, as follows. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHrLADELPHIA. 193 



Order PHOLADACEA. 

 Family PHOLADJD^. 



Animal clavate, with a large truncated foot protruded through the otherwise 

 closed mantle; siphons elongated, connected nearly to their ends, and not 

 provided with shelly styles. Gills narrow, attached, closing the branchial 

 chamber ; palpi elongate. 



Shell always present, its valves generally protected by one or more accessory 

 dorsal plates. 



Inhabiting exeavations in wood or stone, the walls of which are sometimes, 

 but not frequently, lined wiih a testaceous deposit. 



Subfamily 1. Pholadin.e. The valves with a gap anteriorly, which is never 

 closed in the adult shell. 



^Subfamily 2. Jocasketin^. Anterior ventral hiatus open in the young shell, 

 but invariably closed in the adult by a callous plate. 



Family TEREDIDjE. 



■ Animal elongate, subcylindrical, siphons united nearly to the end, their ex- 

 tremities armed with two shelly styles ; foot long and narrow, protruded 

 through the united mantle lobes, which are thickened in front. Gills long ; 

 mouth with palpi. Shell, when present, globular, tripartite, included with the 

 ■ animal in a more or less cylindrical testaceous tube, the siphonal end of which 

 is divided into two by a longitudinal partition. 



Subfamily 1. Teredin.e. Valves present, free, contained in the tube, which 

 is irregularly cylindrical, sometimes much contorted. Perforating timber. 



Subfamily 2. Teeedixi.v.e. Valves with an accessory anterior dorsal plate ; 

 their margins prolonged into a shelly tube when adult. Tube frequently con- 

 camerated ; siphonal extremity often truncate, and the opening contracted by 

 a six-lobed internal margin, (fossil.) 



Subfamily 3. Kcphin.b. Without valves. Tube clavately cylindrical, sunk 

 horizontally in sand. Never penetrating timber. 



The present paper will comprise the family Pholadidse as here limited, while 

 Teredidae will form the subject of a future article. 



Si/nopsis of Genera. 



Subfamily PHOLADIX-E. 



Anterior hiatus always open. 



* With, two dorsal accessory valves. 



Dorsal valves placed anterior and posterior to the beaks, 

 the anterior lanceolate, the posterior small, transverse. 

 Umbonal processes reflected over the beaks, closely applied. 

 Shell elongate Genus Pholas, Linn. 



Dorsal valves lanceolate, placed side by side. Umbonal 

 processes reflexed over the beaks, cellular beneath. Shell 

 oblong, ovate Genus Dactyli.na, Gray. 



Dorsal valves half ovate, diverging, small. Umbonal 

 processes none, but the anterior margins of the valves re- 

 flexed. Shell globose Genus Xvlophaga, Turton. 



Dorsal valves moderate, diverging : anterior hiatus 

 small. Shell oblong-ovate, with a pair of siphonal valves 

 at their posterior end ..Genus Talona, Gray. 



1862.] 




194 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



** With a single accessory valve. 



Dorsal valve lanceolate ; umbonal processes refiexed, 

 closely applied. Shell oblong-ovate Genus Barnea, Leach. 



Dorsal valve ovate-cuneiform; umbonal processes re- 

 flexed, cellular beneath. Shell oblong-ovate Genus Monothyba, Tryon. 



Dorsal valve small, transverse, posterior, under a cori- 

 aceous epidermis. Hinge plates produced and refiexed. 

 Shell ovate Genus Navea, Gray. 



^** Destitute of accessory valves. 

 Beaks protected by a membrane. Valves ovate. ..Genus Zibph^a, Leach. 



Subfamily JOUANNETIN^. 

 Anterior ventral gap closed in the adult by a callous plate. 

 * With three dorsal accessory valves. 

 Anterior dorsal plates two, placed side by side, 

 posterior to which is a central plate, directly over the 

 umbones. Base of the siphons protected by reflected 

 appendages Genus Penitklla, Valenciennes. 



** With two dorsal accessory valves. 



Dorsal valves small. The base of the siphons pro- 

 tected in the adult by a subtestaceous cup-shaped 

 appendage, which is absent in young individuals. 

 Valves ovate Genus Pholadidea, Turton. 



Surface impressed by two oblique sulci, extending 

 from the beaks to the margins. Shell ovate-oblong. 

 Valves equal Genus Parapholas, Conrad. 



*** With a single accessory valve. 



Shell globose, hinge plates not reflexed ; inequivalve, 

 the left valve overlapping the right Genus Jouannktia, Desmoulins. 



Shell ovate-oblong, accessory valve lanceolate or 

 peltate. Equivalve ; the surface impressed by one or 

 more furrows Genus Martesia, Leach. 



Index to the species o/"PHOLADiDffi. 



Anchomasa Pennantiana, Leach = Bar- Dactylina candeana, D'Orb. = D. Cam- 



nea parva, Penn. 

 Barnea Australasifp, Gray. 



Bakeri, Desh.= B. Burmanica ? 



Burmanica, Philippi. 

 Candida, Linn. 

 Erythraea, Gray. 

 fragilis, Sowb. = Manillensis, 

 Philippi. 



lanceolata, D'Orb. 



Manillensis, Philippi 



pechensis. 

 " Chiloensis, King. 

 " dactylus, Linn. 

 " orientalis, Gmel.= Monothyra 

 orientalis, Gm. 

 Jouannetia Cumingii, Sowb. 



" Darwinii, Sowb.= Peaitella 



penita. 

 " globosa, Qnoy. 



_ _ _ '< ^Zoiw/osa, Quoy= J. globosa. 



parva, Pennant. ''^ \ " pectinata, Conrad. 



" similis. Gray. '' pulcherrima, Sowb.=: J. pec- 



'' subtruncata, Sowb. tinata. 



Cadmusia Solandcriana, Leach = Phola- Martesia acummaia, Sowb. = M. calva. 

 didea papyracea, Soland. ' aperta, Sowb. 



^ ^■^ „ , ' Australis, Gray. 



Dactylina Campechensis, Gmel. « branchiata. Gould. 



" " Gray ,=D. Chi- « Ca7(/or«/ea! Conr. = Parapho- 



loensis (part.) I j^g Californica. 



[xipril, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



195 



Martesia calva, Sowb. 



" clavata, Lam. = M. striata. 

 " corticaria, Adams. 

 " cuneifornis, Say. 

 " curta, Sowb. 

 " intercalata, Carpenter, 

 'jf multistriata, Sowb. 

 " obtecta, Sowb. 

 " ovum, Gray, 

 " rivicola, Sowb. 

 " striata, Linn. 

 Mouothyra orientalis, Gmelin. 

 Mya crispain, Linn. = Zirphaea crispata. 

 Navea nucifera, Fabr. 

 " subglobosa, Gray. 

 " tenuis. Gray. 

 Parapholas acuminata, Sowb. = Marte- 

 sia calva. 

 " bisulcata, Conr. = Martesia 



calva. 

 " Californica, Conrad. 



'' calva, Sow. ^Martesia calva. 



" concamerata, Desh. = Peni- 



tella penita. 

 '' Janelli, Desh.^P. Califor- 



nica. 

 " ovoidea, Gld. = Pholadidea 



ovoidea. 

 " penita, Conr. =: Penitella pe- 



nita. 

 " quadrizonalis, Spengl. 



Penitella Conradi, Val. = P. penita. 

 " penita, Conrad. 

 " Wilsonii, Conr. = Pholadidea 



melanura. 

 Pholadidea cuneiformis, Say ^Martesia 

 cuneiformis. 

 " cwr<a, Sow. ^Martesia curta. 



" Goodallii, Blain. = P. papy- 



racea. 

 " loscombia, Turt. = P. papy- 



racea. 

 " melanura, Sowb. 



" ovoidea, Gould. 



" papyracea, Solander. 



" penita, Conr. = Penitella pe- 



nita. 

 " quadra, Sowb. 



" spathulata, Sowb. 



" sulcata, Brown. 



" trider.s, Gray. 



" tubifera, Sowb. 



Pholadopsis pectinata, Conr.:=:Jouanne- 



tia pectinata. 

 Pholas acuminata, Sowerb. = Martesia 

 calva. 

 ■' angustius, Petiver. = Dactylina 

 dactylus. 



1862.] 



Pholas antipodum, Phil. ^ Barnea simi- 

 lis. 



" (7/jer/a, Sowb.=:Martesia aperta 



" Australasice, Gray, = Barnea 

 Australasias. 



•' Bakeri, Desh, = Barnea Bur- 

 manica? 



" Beauiana, Recluz. = Mart, cor- 

 ticaria, Ad. 



" bifrons, Da Costa, = Zirphaea 

 crispata. 



" Birmanica, Phil. ^= Barnea Bur- 

 manica. 



" branchiata, Gould. = Martesia 

 branchiata. 



" Californica, Conr. = Parapholas 

 Californica. 



" callosa, Lam. = Dactylina dac- 

 tylus. 



" calva, Sowb. = Martesia calva. 



" Campechensis, Gmel.=Dactylina 

 Campechensis. 



" Candeana, D'Orb. := Dactilina 

 Campechensis. 



" Candida, Chemn. = Talona ex- 

 planata. 



" Candida, Linn. ^Barnea Candida. 



" Caribaea, D'Orb.=Martesia cor- 

 ticaria. 



" Chiloe?isis, King, = Dactylina 

 Chiloensis. 



" clausus, Gray, = Talona expla- 

 nata. 



" clavata, Lam.=:Martesia striata. 



" concamerata, Desh. = Penitella 

 penita. 



" conoides, Flem.^Mart. striata. 



" cons^ric^i?, Sowb. =Zirph3eacon- 

 stricta. 



" cordata, Schroter, = Schroteria 

 cordata. 



" cornea, Sowb.=PeniteUa penita 



" corticaria, Ad.= Martesia corti- 

 caria. 



" costata, Linn. 



" crenulatus, Spengler, = Barnea 

 parva. 



" crispa, Blainv. = Zirphaea cris- 

 pata. 



" crispata, Linn. = Zirphaea cris- 

 pata. 



" crucifera, Sowb. 



•' cruciger, Sowb. =: P. crucifera. 



" cucuUata, Gray, = Penitella pe- 

 nita. 



" cuneiformis, Say,^ Martesia cu- 

 neiformis. 



" curia, Sowb. ^= Martesia curta. 




196 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Pholas dadyloides, Delia Chiaje,= Bar- 

 nea Candida. 

 " dactyloides, Lamarck, = Barnea 



parva. 

 " dactylus, Linn.=Dactjlina dac- 



tylus. 

 " dactylus^ Spengl. = Monothyra 



orientalis. 

 " dactylus, var. Deshayes, = Bar- 

 nea parva. 

 " Darivinii, Sowb.^Penitella pe- 



nita. 

 " Edwardsii, Gray,=zMartesia cu- 



neiformis. 

 " explanata, Spengl.= Talona ex- 



planata. 

 " falcata, Wood, = Martesia stri- 

 ata. 

 " fragilis, Sowb.= Barnea Manil- 



lensis. 

 " gibhosa, D'Orb. = Xylophaga 



globosa. 

 " globulosa, Quoy, = Jouannetia 



globosa. 

 " hians, Pultney,=Dactylina dac- 

 tylus. 

 " Hornbeckii, D'Orb. = Martesia 



corticaria. 

 " Inch, Sowb.^Parapholas quad- 



rizonalis. 

 " Janelli, Desh.^Parapholas Ca- 



lifornica. 

 " Julan, Adans.^Zirphaea Julan. 

 " lamellata, Turt. := Pholadidea 



papyracea. 

 •' lamellosa, D'Orb. =Barnea sub- 



truncata. 

 " lanceolata, D'Orb. =:Barnea lan- 



ceolata. 

 " laqueata, Sowerby,^ Dactylina 



Chiloensis. 

 " latissima, Sowb. 

 '• ligamentina, Deshayes, ^Barnea 



parva. 

 " lignorum, Spengler, = Martesia 



striata. 

 " iI/a«i7/(E, Sowb.=Barnea Manil- 



lensis. 

 " Manillensis, Phil. ^Barnea Ma- 



nillensis. 

 " melanura, Sowb. = Pholadidea 



melanura. 

 " multistriata, Sowb. = Martesia 



multistriata. 

 " muricata, Da Costa,^ Dactylina 



dactylus. 

 " nana, Pult. = Martesia striata. 

 " nucifera, Fab.=:Navea nucifera. 



Pholas oblongata. Say, = Dactylina 

 Campechensis. 

 " obtecta, Sowb. = Martesia ob- 



tecta. 

 " orientalis, Gmel. = Monothyra 



orientalis. 

 " ovata, Gray, = Martesia ovum. 

 " ovoidea, Gould, = Pholadidea 



oroidea. 

 " ovum, Gray, = Martesia ovum. 

 " papyracea, Spengler. ^ Barnea 



Candida. 

 " papyracea, Soland.=Pholadidea 



papyracea. 

 " parva, PeDnant,=Barnea parva. 

 " parva, Da Costa,=Zirph£ea cris- 



pata. 

 " patula. Gould, = P. latissima. 

 " penita, Conr.=Penitella penita. 

 " j9!«i7/a, Linn. =Martesia striata. 

 " quadra, Sowb. =^ Pholadidea 



quadra. 

 " quadrizonalis, Spengl. =; Para- 



pholas quadrizonalis. 

 " rivicola, Sowb. =: Martesia rivi- 



cola. 

 " rudis, Gray, = Martesia cunei- 



formis. 

 " semicostata, H. C. Lea, = Marte- 

 sia striata. 

 " Siamensis, Spengl.:= Monothyra 



orientalis. 

 " siiicula, Desh.=Barnea Candida. 

 " similis. Gray, ^Barnea similis. 

 " spathulata, Sowb.= Pholadidea 



spathulata. 

 " striata, Linn.=Martesia striata. 

 " striata, Blainv. ^Pholadidea pa- 

 pyracea. 

 " subtruncata, Sowerby = Barnea 



subtruncata. 

 " sulcata. Brown, = Pholadidea 



sulcata. 

 " Terediniformis, Sowb. ^Martesia 



striata. 

 " tridens, Gray,= Pholadidea tri- 



dens. 

 " truncata, Say. 

 " iuberculatus, Turton, ^ Barnea 



parva. 

 " tubifera, Sowb. == Pholadidea 



tubifera. 

 " Vibonensis, Phil. ^ Pholadidea 



papyracea. 

 " Xylophaga, Desh. = Xylophaga 



dorsalis. 

 Schroteria cordata, Schroter. 

 Solen crispus, Gmel.=Zirph£ea crispata. 



[April. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 197 



Talona clausa, Gray,i=T. explanata. 



" explanata, Spengler. 

 Teredo dorsalis, Turton. = Xylophaga 



dorsalis. 

 Thurlosia crigpaia, Leach. = Zirpheea 



crispata. 

 Triomphalia Cumingii, Sowb. = Jouan- 

 netia Cumingii. 

 " fflobosa, Qnoy,= Jouanne- 



tia globosa. 

 " pulcherrima, Sowb. = Jou- 



annetia pectinata. 



Xylophaga cardissa, Gould. 

 " dorsalis, Turton. 



" globosa, Sowb. 



Zirphaea Beauiana, Recluz. = Martesia 

 corticaria. 

 " constricta, Sowb. 

 " crispata, Linn. 

 " Darivinii, Sowb. = Penitella 



penita. 

 " Julan, Adanson. 

 " Vibonensis, Philippi, = Phola- 

 didea papyracea. 



Reference to Authors on Pholadidae. 



Adams, Chas. B Catalogue of Shells Collected at Panama, 1852. Con- 

 tributions to Concbology, 1849 to 1852. 



Adams, H. & A Genera of Recent Mollusca, ii. 1854. 



Adams & Reeve Mollusca; Voyage of the Samarang, 1850. 



Adanson Hist. Nat. du Senegal, 1757. 



Alder Catalogue of the Mollusca of Northumberland. 



Aldrovandi De Test, 1618. 



Anton Versuch der Conchylien, 1839. 



Argenville Conchyliologie, 1757. 



'Aucapitaine Observ. sur la perforation des Roches par les Pholades, 



Rev. et Mag. Zool., 1851. 



Earbut Genera Yermium. 



Beau Catalogue des Coquilles Guadaloupe, 1858. 



Below De Aquat. 



Blainville Diet, des Sciences Naturelles, xxxvii, xxxix. 1826. 



Manuel Malcologie, 1825. 



Bonanni Recreatio Mentis et Ocnli, pt. 2, 1684. 



Born ' Test. Musei Cssarei Vindobonensis, 1780. 



Bosc Hist. Nat. des Coquilles, ii. 1801, 



Bouchard-Chantereaux..Cat. Coquilles Boulonnais, 1829. 



Breynius Dissert, 1732. 



Bronn Syst. urw. Conchy!., 1824. 



Boooke, Samuel Conchology, 1815. 



Brown, Capt. Thos Illustrations of the Conchology of Great Britain, 1844. 



Bruguiere Encyclopedic Methodique, 1789. 



Burrow Elements, 2d edit., 1825. 



Cailliaud, F Perforation des Pholades, Rev, et Mag. Zool., 1&51, p. 



543; 1857, p. 64. 



Carpenter, P. P ,. .Report on the Mollusca of the West Coast of North 



America, 1856. In Zoological Proceedings, 1856, 

 Catalogue of Reigen Collection of Mazatlan Mollusca, 

 1857. Check-List of West Coast Mollusca, 1860. 

 Lectures on Mollusca, 8vo, 1861. 



Catlow, Agnes Conchologists' Nomenclator, 1845. 



Chemnitz Conchylien Cabinet, viii. 1785. 



Chenu, J. C Illustrations Conchyliogiques Monog, Pholas, folio. 



Encyc Hist. Nat. MoUusques. Manuel de Conchy- 

 liologie, ii. 1862. 



Collard des Cherres Cat. Moll, du Dep't du Pinisterre, 1830. 



Conrad, T. A Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, Dec, 1848 and Feb., 1849. 



Journ. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1st series, vii. 1837 ; 2d 

 series, i. 214, 1849 ; 279, 1850 ; ii. p. 335. 1854. 



Crouch Introduction to Lamarck's Concbology, 1827. 



1862.] 




198 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Cuvier Tabl. Method., 1798. Anat. Comparit. 1800. Regne 



Animal, 1st edit., 1817; edit. Croch; edit. GriflSth, 

 1834; edit. Headerson ; edit. Audouin, 1836. 



Da Costa British Conchology. 1778. 



De Kay, J. E Mollusca of New York, 1843. 



Delessert Rec. des Coq. decrites par Lamarck, 1841. 



Delia Chiaje Mem., iv. 



Deshayes Exploration Scientifique de I'Algerie, Mollusques. 



Encyc. Method. Vers., iii. 1830. Traite Elem., i. pt. 

 2, 1843 — '50. In Lamarck, vi. 1835. Annals des 

 Sciences Naturelles, 2 ser., xi. p. 240. Review Zoo- 

 logique, 1839. Gueria's Mag. Zool., 1840. 



Desmoulins, Chas Bull. Linn. Soc. Bordeaux, ii. 



Dillwyn, L. W Descriptive Catalogue of Recent Shells, 1817. 



Donovan British Shells, iv. 1799. 



D'Orbigny, Alcide Mollusca of Sagra's Hist. Cuba, ii. Voy. Amer. Merid. 



Mollusques.* 



Favanne Conchyliologie, 1780. 



Ferussac Tabl. Systematique, 1821. 



Fijcher Journ. de Conchyliologie, 2d ser., iii. 1858 and iv. I860. 



Fleming History of British Animals, 1828. Edinburg Encyclo- 

 pedia, viii. 



Forbes and Hanley History of British Mollusca, i. 1853. 



Gay Hist. Nat. Chili, viii. 



Gerville Cat. Coquilles de la Manche, 1825. 



Gesner De Crust. 



Gibbes In Tuomey's Geol. S. Carolina, 1848. 



Ginanni Op. Post., 1755 — '57. 



Gmelin Systema Naturae, 1790. 



Gould, A. A In Boston Proceedings, ii. 1845. In Boston Journal, 



vi. 1853. Invertebrata of Massachusetts, 1841. Mol- 

 lusca Wilkes' Exploring Expedition, 1852. Otia 

 Conchologica, Feb., 1862. 



Gray, J. E Mollusca; Yates' New Zealand. In Bowdich's Elements, 



1822. Figures of Molluscous Animals, v. 1857. In 

 London Medical Repository, 1821. Synopsis Brit. 

 Mus., 1820; 1839; 1840; 1842. Proc. Zool. Soc, 

 1847. In Annals and Mag. Nat. Hist., 2d ser., viii. p. 

 380, 1851. 



Gualtieri ..Index Testarum. 1742. 



Hanley Descriptive Catalogue, 1842. 



Hermannson Genera, 1849. 



Jay, J. C Catalogue of Shells, 4th edit., 1850. 



Johnston De Exang. 



Karsten Mus. Lesk, i. p. 150. 



King Zool. Journal, v. 1832. 



Klein Ostracologicse, 1757. 



Knorr Vergniigen der Augen, ii. 1757. 



Kurtz Catalogue of Mollusca of North and South Carolina, 



1860. 



Lamarck Prodr., 1799. Phil. Zool., 1809. Extrait d'un Cours. 



1812. Anim. Sans. Vert., v. 1818 ; (edit. Desh.,) vi. 

 1835; (edit. Brux,) ii. 



Latreille Fam. Nat, 1825. 



* The litle-page of this volume bears date 1835 — '43, yet reference is made in ihe text 

 to descriptions published by other authors in 1846. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



Lea, Henry C Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, iii. 1843. Boston Proc, 1844. 



Leach, W. E MoUusca of Great Britain, 1852. 



Linnaeus Mus. Ulric. Faun. Suec. West. Res., 1747. Systema 



Natural, ed. 10, 1758. 



Lister Hist. Conchyliorum, 1687. Anim. Angl., 1678. 



Macgillivray, Wm Molluscous Animals of Aberdeen, 1843. 



Marvye Meth. Necess, aux Marina. 



Mawe Conchology, 1823. 



Menke Syn. Methodique, 1820, 2d edit., 1830. 



MiddendorfiF Malacozoologica Rossica, pt. iii. 1849. 



Milne-Edwards Conch., 1845. 



Montagu Testacea Britannica, 1803. 



Morch Catalogue, 1853. 



Miiller Fauna Dannica, 1788. 



MUller, Theo Synopsis Test. Viv., 1836. 



Murray Fund. Testaceologie. 



Olivi Zool. Adriatica, 1792. 



Olafsen Island, 1722. 



Pennant Brit. Zoology, iv. 1777. 



Petiver Gazophyllum. 



Phillipi Nevier oder Wenig. Gekannte Conchylien, iii. 1847 — '51. 



Enum. Moll. Sicil., i. 1836; ii. 1844. Zeitschr fur 

 Malak., 1847. 



Pliny Hist. Nat., ix. 



Plancus De Conch. 



Poiret Voy. en Barbaric, pt. 2. 



Poll Testacea utriusque Siciliae, i. 1791 ; ii. 1795. 



Potiez et Michaud Gallerie des Mollusques, ii. 1844. 



Pultney Dorsetshire Catalogue, 1799. 



Quoy Mollusca, Voy. Astrolabe, 1832. 



Rang Manuel Mollusques, 1829. 



Reaumur Mem. de I'Acad., 1812. 



Reeve Conch. Syst., 1841. 



Recluz Journal de Conchyliologie, 1st ser., iv. 1853. 



Reichenbach Con. hy lien, 1842. 



Risso Hist. Nat. Europe Meridionale, iv. 1826. 



Roissy Mollusques, 1805. 



Rondelet Hist, des Poissons. 



Rumphias Amboinsche Rariteitkamer, 1705. 



Russell Essex (Mass ) Journ. Nat. Hist., i, 1839. 



Say, Thos Journal Acad. Nat. Sciences, Ist ser., ii. 1822. 



Schroter Einleit in Conchylien, iii. 1786. 



Schumacher Essai d'un Nov. Syst., 1817. 



Seba Mus., iii. 1761. 



Sowerby Conchological Manual, 1842. Monog. Pholas. Thes. 



Conch., ii. 1849. Genera, No. 23, 1820— '24. Zoo- 

 logical Proc, 1834; 1835; 1849. Illustrations of 

 Brit. Shells, 1859. 



Spengler Besch. Berl. Naturg., iv. Skrivt. Nat., ii. pt. 1, 1792 : 



iv. 1798. 



Stimpson, Wm Shells of New England, 1851. Check-List East Coast 



Shells, 1860. 



Swaiuson Elements, 1835. Treatise on Malacology, 1840. 



Thompson Report on Irish Fauna. 



Thorpe, Chas British Marine Conchology, 1844. 



Turton Conchological Dictionary, 1819. Conch dithyra Brit- 



tanica, 1822. 



1862.] 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Valenciennes Atlas, Mollusca, Voyage of the Venus, 1846. 



Wheatley, C. M Catalogue of the Shells of the United States, 1842. 



■Wood, Wm General Conchology, 1817; 2d edit., with plates, 1835. 



Index Testaceologicus, 1818; 2d edit., with plates, 



1828. 



Woodward, S. P Manual of Mollusca, part 2, 1854. 



Wyatt, Thos Conchology, 1838. 



List of recent species. 



Family PBOLADIDjE, Carpenter. 



PnoLADiDiE, p. p. Carpenter, Lectures on Mollusca, p. 99, 1861. 



Fkoladidce, (part.) Gray, 1839. Gray Zool. Proc. p. 187. 1847. Gray, Ann. and 

 Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 380, 1851. 

 " " H. C, Lea, Proc. Am. Phil. Soc. iii. p. 163, 1843. Wood- 



ward, Man. pt. 2, 1854. 

 Adesmacea, (part.) Blainville, Malacol. p. 577, 1825. 

 Cladopoda, (part.) Gray, London Med. Repository, 1821. 

 Pholadacea^ (part.) Blainville, 1818. 

 PholadcE, (part.) Fleming, Hist. Brit. Anim. p. 410, 1828. Gray, Syn. Brit. 



Mus. p. 91, 1842. 

 Fholadaria, (part.) Lamarck, Phil. Zool. 1809, Extr. d'un Cours. 1812, Anim. S. 



Vert. V. p. 441. Sowerby, Manual p. 224, 1842. Hanley, Desc. Cat. 



p. 5, 1842. 

 Pholadarice, (part.) Latr. Fam. Nat. 1825. 



Pholadea, (part.) Anton. Versucb, p. 1, 1839. Menke, Syn. p. 121, 1830. 

 PholadeoR, (part.) Menke, Syn. p. 73, 1828. 

 Pholades, (part.) Ferussac, Tab. Syat. 1821. 

 PholadiadcB, (part.) Leach, teste Gray. 

 Pholadina, (part.) Milne-Edwards, Conch, p. 203, 1845. 

 Pholadoidce, (part.) Agassiz, Nomenc. Zool. 1847. 

 Pholadria, (part.) Sism., Syn. An. Foss. 1842. 

 Pholedarice, (part.) Bronn, Syst. urw. Conch. 1824. 

 PholfdcE, (part.) Swainson, Elem. 1835. Swainson, Malacol. 1840. 

 Pholidcea, (part.) Leach, teste Swainson, Malacol. 1840. 



Subfamily PHOLADIN^, Tryon. 



Pholadina, (part.) Gray, Zool. Proc. p. 187, 1847. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 



2d ser. viii. p. 380, 1851. 

 Zirphceina,..(Tp&Tt.) Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 381, 1851. 



Genus Pholas, Linn. 



Pholas, Linnaeus, Syst. Nat. 1757. Langius, 1722. Adanson, Senegal, 1757. 

 Brug., Encyc. Meth. 1789. Gmelin, Syst. Nat. 1790, Olivi, Adrit 1792. 

 Spengler, Skrivt. ii. 1792. Cuvier, Tabl. Meth. 1798. Lamarck, Prodr. 

 1799. Cuvier, Anat. Comp. 1800. Lamarck, Syst. 1801. Schumacher, 

 Essai d'un Nov. Syst. 1817. Cuvier, Regne Anim. 1817. Ferussac, Tabl. 

 Syst. 1821. Fleming, Brit. Anim. 1828. Rang. Man. 1829. Swainson, 

 Malacol. 1840. Reeve, Conch. Syst. 1841. Hermannson, Genera, 1849. 

 Sowerby, Monogr. 1849. Gray, Ann. Mag. N. Hist. 1851. Woodward, 

 Man. 1854. H. & A. Adams, Genera ii. 1854. Chenu, Man. ii. 1S62. 



Pholas, (part.) Lister, Hist. 1687.* 



Dactr/lus, (Pliny, Hist. Nat. ix. Cap. 87. 



• The Genus Pholas of Rondelet, Univ. Aq. Hist. 1855; Aldrovandi, Des Test. 1606; 

 Reaumur, Mem. Acad. Roy. 1712; Tournef. 1742; D'Argenville, Conch, 1757; and (part) 

 Lister, Hist. 1687 = Lithodomus. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



Conchoides, (part.) Breyn., Dissert, p. 8, 1732. Gualtieri, Ind. tab. 105, 1742. 



Solm, (part.) Tournefort, in Gnaltieri Index, 1742. 



Mya (part.) Linn., Westg. Res. p. 187, 1747. Syst. Nat. (ed. 10) p. 670, 1758. 



Chamoepholas, (part.) Browne. 



Concha-Eboracenns, Klein, Ostracol. p. 170, 1753. 



Hypogcea, (part.) Poli, Test. utr. Sicil. i. p. 29, 1791. 



HypogfBoclerma, (part.) Poli, Test. utr. Sicil. ii. p. 251, 1795. 



There are but four known recent specie's of Pholas as now restricted, and 

 they are very easily distinguishable from each other. 



•^Margins of the valves regularly rounded anteriorly P. costata. 



**Anterior ventral margins emarginate Subgenus Cyrtopleora. 



a. Posterior extremity of the shell not truncate P. crucifera. 



b. Posterior extremity truncate. 



Truncated end but very slightly convex in outline P. truncal a. 



Truncated end rounded, shell short and broad P. la t issim a. 



P. costata, Linn.,LinnaBUS, Syst. Nat. 1111. Adans., Genera iii. t. 89, f. 1, 1, a. 

 Anton. Verzeich der Conch, p. 1. Blainville, Man. de Malacol. t. 79, 

 f. 6. Born., Testacea, p. 15. Bosc. Hist. Nat. des Coq. ii. p. 195. Brug. 

 Encyc. Meth. t. 169, f. 1,2. Catlow., Conch. Nomenc. p. 3. Chemnitz, 

 Conchyl. Cab. viii. t. 101, f. 863. Chenu, Man. de Conch, ii. f. 1, 2, 3. 

 Deshayes, Encyc. vers. iii. p. 754. Deshayes, Traite Elem. i. pt. ii. t. 

 3, f. 10. Dekay, Mollasca New York, p. 248. Dillwyn, Desc. Cat. p. 

 36. D'Orbigny, Voy. Amer. Merid. Mollusques, p. 496. D'Orbignr, Mol- 

 lusques, Sagra's Cuba, ii. p. 213. Favanne, Conchyl. t. 60, f. 1. 

 Fischer, Journ. Conchyl. 2d ser. iii. p. 48. Gibbes, in fuomey's Geol. 

 S. Carolina. Gmelin, Syst. Nat. p. 3215. Gould, Invert. Mass. p. 27. 

 Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 381. Gualtieri, Index 

 Test. t. 105, fig. g. Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 6. Jay, Cat. 4th edit. p. 10. 

 Knorr, Vergniig. ii. t. 25, f. 4. Kurtz, Cat. Shells, N. and S. Carolina, 

 p. 3. Lamarck, ,\nim. sans Vert. (Desh. Edit.) vi. p. 45. Lister, Conch. 

 t. 434, f. 277. Mawe., Conch, t. 1, f. 4. Menke, Syn. p. 73. Morch. 

 Cat. p. 3. Potiez and Mich., Gallerie des Moll. ii. p. 269. Reeve, 

 Conch. Syst. t. 23. Schrdter, Einleit. Conch, iii. p. 537. Sowerby, 

 Genera No. 23. Sowerby, Monog. Pholas. Thes. Conch, ii. p. 487, t. 

 102, f. 8, 9. Spengler, Skrivt. Nat. ii. p. 86. Stimpson, Shells Ne-w 

 England, p. 25. Stimpson, Check List E, Coast Shells, No. 243. Wheat- 

 ley, Cat. Shells. U. S. p. 2. Wood, Gen. Conch, t. 15, f. 1, 2. Wood, 

 Index Test. t. 2, f. 4. Wyatt, Conch, p. 28, t. 3, f. 4. 



Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci., from Georgia, Cuba, Vera Cruz. Coll. Dr. J. C. Jay. 

 Coll. G. W. Tryon, Jr., (from Atlantic City, N. J.) Coll. Isaac Lea, LL.D. 



Dr. Gould included this species in his '• Invertebrata," on account of the dis- 

 covery by Prof. C. B. Adams of an extensive bed of dead shells in New Bedford 

 harbor. He subsequently announced it as living at this locality, remarking 

 that he was not aware of its existence at any other place north of the Mexican 

 Gulf (Bost. Proc. ii. p. 81, 1845.) 



Dr. De Kay described P. costata as a Southern shell, and no account of its 

 occurrence north of North Carolina has been noticed, except '-New York,'' in 

 Jay's Catalogue. Dr. Stimpson writes to me that he has never met with this 

 shell at any intermediate locality; therefore I am glad to announce its occur- 

 rence at Atlantic City, New Jersey, where I obtained several perfect valves on 

 the beach, and at Cape May, New Jersey, where Dr. Leidy has procared a few 

 specimens. 



Subgenus Cyktoplecra, Tryon. 

 Margins of the valves emarginate anteriorly^ making a short wide hiatus. 

 P. crucifera, Sowerby. 

 1862.] 14 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Pholas cruciger, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. p. CO, 1834. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. 

 p. 3. D'Orbigny, Voy. Amer. Merid. Moll, p, 499. Miiller, Syn. Test. 

 Viv. p. 236. 

 " cruciyera, Philippi, Neiier Mollusken, iii. Pholas. t. 2, f. 4. 

 " crucifera, Adams, Panama Shells, p. 301. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 335. 

 Chenu, Man. Conch, il. f. 5. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 48. 

 Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 381. Hanley, Desc. 

 Cat. p. G. Jay, Cat. 4th ed. p. 10. Sowerby, Monog. Pholas. Thes. 

 Conch, ii. p. 489, t. 104, f. 24—26. 

 Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. ; St. Croix, West Indies? Panama. Coll. Dr. J. C. Jay. 

 Coll. G. W. Tryon, Jr. 



This is a very distinct species, differing from all others in the genus by the 

 cruciform expansion of the dorsal margin. 



P. t r u n c a t a, Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1st ser. ii. p. 321. Adams, Genera, 



ii. p. 325. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 4. DeKay, Moll. New York, 



R. 248, t. 34, f. 223 ah. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 48. 



Gibbes, Tuomey's Geol. S. Carolina. Gould, Proc. Best. ii. p. 81, 



Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 381. Hanley, Desc. 



Cat. p. 6, t. 9, f. 56. Jay, Cat. 4th ed. p. 10. Kurtz, Cat. Shells N. 



and S. Carolina, p. 3. Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, Thes. Conch, ii. p. 



488, I. 104, f. 29, 30. Stimpson, Shells New England, p. 25. Stimp- 



son. Check List E. Coast Shells. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S. p. 2. 



Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. ; New Bedford, Mass., Long Island Sound, S. Carolina, 



Payta, Peru, Chili. Coll. Dr. J. C. Jay. Coll. Isaac Lea. Coll. G. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Mr. Sowerby wrongly refers for Say's description to " American Journal of 



Science, ii. p. 321." 



So late as 1845, Dr. Gould, in announcing to the Boston Society of Natural 

 History the occurrence of this species at New Bedford, Mass., remarked that it 

 was the only locality north of South Carolina ; it is now known to inhabit 

 almost the entire coast. 



P. truncata grows quite large on the northern coast, reaching three and a 

 half inches, as Dr. Gould informs me, in the vicinity of Sable Island. I had 

 some doubt respecting the locality "Chili" attached to a specimen in Coll. A. 

 N. S. until the recent discovery, amongst a mass of rubbish, of a large bottle 

 of shells, collected by Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger at Payta, Peru, which con- 

 tained a number of specimens of this shell and of Dactylina Chiloensis. The 

 west coast individuals are about the same size as our Southern specimens, 

 which they also resemble in form, being rather longer and narrower than those 

 from the New England States. 



P. latissima, Sowerby. 



P. latissima, Sowerby, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1849, p. 162. Sowerby, Monog. 

 Pholas, Thes. Conch, ii. p. 489, t. 103, f. 15, 16. Adams, Genera, ii, 

 p. 325. Chenu, Man. Conchyl. ii. f. 4, 6. Fischer, Journ. Conchyl. 

 2d ser. iii. p. 48. Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 381. 

 Philippi, Neiier Conch, iii. Pholas, t. 2, f. 1. 

 P. patula, Gould, Bost. Proc. ii. p. 214, May, 1850. Gould, Moll. U. S. Expl. 

 Exped. p. 384. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 325. Fischer, Journ. Conchyl. 

 2d ser. iii. p. 48. Jay, Cat. 4th ed. p. 10. 

 Ilab. — Manilla. Philippines. 

 Coll. Dr. J. C. Jay. 



Dr. Gould remarks, in the " Mollusca," that P. patnla approaches, and may 

 be identical with, Sowerby's species. The descriptions correspond, with the 

 exception of a vertical constriction which divides the valve of P. patula in the 

 middle, but which is not mentioned by Mr. Sowerby; nevertheless there k a 

 slight constriction of the valve represented in Mr. Sowerby's figure. There can 

 be no doubt of the identity of these shells. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



Dr. Gould, in his text, refers to fig. 497 a 6, which was not published, in con- 

 sequence, as he informs me, of the only valve being broken while in the artist's 

 hands. 



P. latissJma is readily distinguishable from truncata by its posterior 

 side being much shorter, with the ed^e more rounded, and by the greater thick- 

 ness of the shell in proportion to its length. 



Genus Dactylina, Gray. 

 Dactylina, Gray, Proc. Zool. Soc. p. 187, 1847. Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. 

 Hist. 2 ser. viii. H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 325. Chenu, Man. 

 Conch, ii. 

 Dactylw, Pliny, Hist. Nat. ix. cap. 87. 

 Pholas, (partim,) of authors. 



There are two distinct forms of Dactylina ; in the first, which I propose to 

 consider the typical form, the nuclei of the dorsal valves are situated at their 

 outer margins, posterior to the centre ; several impressed lines radiate from 

 the nuclei to the inner margin, dividing each valve into several subtriangular 

 spaces. The valves are much emarginate anteriorly, forming a short, wide 

 hiatus. 

 The other form may be thus characterized, — 



Subgenus GiTocENTRnif. 

 Nuclei of the dorsal valves anterior, situated nearer the inner margin. Dor- 

 sal plates marked by radiating lines. Valves not emarginate anteriorly, but 

 regularly rounded; hiatus long and narrow. 



Typical Species. 



D. d a c t y 1 u s, Linn, (species.) 



Pholas da c tyl u s, Linn. Syst. Nat. p. 1110. Linnaeus, Faun. Suec. 2124. 

 Anton, Verzeich der Conch, p. 1. Argenville, Conchyl. t. 3, f. k. m. 

 Barbut, Gen. Verm. t. 1, f. 11. Bonanni, pt. 2, f. 25, 26. Born, Test. 

 p. 14, t. 1, f. 7. Bosc, Hist. Nat. des Coq. ii. p. 194, t. 5, f. 1, 2, 3. 

 Brooke, Conch, t. 1, f. 7, 8. Brown, Iliust. Conch. Great Britain, p, 

 115, t. 49, f. 1, 2, 3. Bruguiere, Encyc. Meth. t. 168, f. 2—4. Catlow, 

 Conch. Nomenc. p. 3. Chemnitz, Conch. Cat. viii. t. 101, f. 857. 

 Chenu, Encyc. Hist. Nat. Moll. t. 33, f. 4, 5. DaCosta, Brit. Conch, p. 

 144, t. 16, f. 2. Deshayes, Encyc. Vers. iii. p. 753. Deshayes, Expl. 

 Sci. de I'Algerie Moll. p. 107, t. 9, C. E. & G. f. 1—3. (Animal.) Dill- 

 wyn, Desc. Cat. i. p. 35. Donovan, Brit. Shells, iv. t. 118. Favanne, 

 Conchyl. t. GO, f. al. Fleming, Edinburg Encyc. vii. p. 100. Fleming, 

 Brit. Anim. p. 457. Forbes and Hanley, Brit. Moll. i. p. 108, t. 3. Gi- 

 nanni. Op. post. t. 31, f. 184, 185. Graelin, Syst. Nat. p. 3214. 

 Gualtieri, Test. t. 105, f. D. Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 5. Herbst, Einl. i. 

 p. 115, t. 26, f. 1. Jay, Cat. 4th ed. p. 10. Jonston, De exang. t. 11, 

 f. 8, and t. 13. Karsten, Mus. Lesk. i. p. 150. Lamarck, Anim. sans 

 Vert. V. p. 444. Lamarck, (Desh. edit.) Anim. sans Vert. vi. p. 43. 

 Leach, Moll. Great Britain, p. 251. Lister, Conch, t 433, f. 276. 

 Marvye, Meth. necess. aux Marins, t. 1, f. 10. Mawe, Conch, t. 3, f. 3. 

 Menke, Syn. Meth. p. 73. Montagu, Test. Brit. p. 20 and 528. Miiller, 

 Faun. Dann. p. 251. Murray, Fund. Testae, p. 40, t. 2, f. 3. Olivi, 

 Zool. Adriat. p. 93. Pennant, Brit. Zool. iv. p. 76, t. 39, f. 10. Petiver, 

 Gazoph. t. 79, f. 10. Philippi, Enum. Moll. Sicil. i. p. 3 and ii. p. 4. 

 Plancus, de Conch, p. 33. Poll, Test. utr. Sicil. i. t. 7, f. 1—11. 

 Poiret, Voy. en Barbarie, pt. 2, p. 11. Potiez et Michaud, Gallerie des 

 Moll. ii. p. 268. Reaumur, Mem. de I'Acad. 1712, p. 125, t. 7, f. 1, 2. 

 Reeve, Conch. Syst. t. 24. Reichenbach, Conchyl. p. 117, t. 725, 726. 

 Roissy, Moll. vi. p. 438. Seba, Mus. iii. t. 16, f. Q ab. Sowerbv, 



1862.] 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Genera Pbolas, f. 1. Sowerby, Conch. Man. t. 2, f. 55, 55 a. Sowerby, 

 Illust. Brit. Shells, t. 1. f. 8. Sowerby, Monog. Pholas. Thes. Conch, 

 ii. p. 485, t. 102, f. 10, 11 and t. 105, f. 4*7. Spengler, Skrivt. Nat. ii. 

 pt. 1, p. 85. Thompson, Rep. Irish Fanna, p. 263. Thorpe, Brit. 

 Mar. Conch, p. 31. Wood, Gen. Conch, t. 13, f. 1—3. Wood, Index 

 Test, t. 2, f. 1. Woodward, Mannal, p. 328, f. 22. Wyatt, Conch, p. 

 27, t. 3, f. 3. 

 Pactyiina dactylus. Gray, Figs. Moll, Anini. t. 237, f. 4 and t. 238, f. 7. 

 Gray, Ann. and Mag. Mat. Hist. 2 per. viii. p. 382. H. and A. Adams, 

 Genera, iii. t. 89, f. 2, 2ab. Chenu, Man. Conch, ii. f. 10, 11, 13. 

 Fischer, Journ. Conchyl. 2 ser. iii. p. 49. Murch, Cat. p. 3. 

 Pholas callosa, Lamarck, Anim. sans Vert. v. p. 445. Lamarck, (Desh. edit.) 

 Anim. sans Vert. vi. p. 4G. Cuvier, Reg. Anim. (edit. Croch.) t. 113, 

 f. 1. Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 5. 

 " Mans, Pnltney, Dorset. Cat. p. 26. 

 " anffustms, Petiver, Gazophyl. t. 79, f. 10. 

 " muricata, DaCosta, Brit. Conch, p. 244, t. 16, f. 2. 

 Donaz eive Daciyhis, Belon, de Aquat. p. 414. 

 Coguille lonyue, Rondelet, Hist, des Poissons, p. 10. 

 Concha longa Rondeleti, Gesner, de Crust, p. 201. 

 Concha vera Plinii, Aldrovandi, de Test. p. 454. 

 Concha longa, Aldrovandi, de Test. p. 455, f. 1. 2, 3. 

 Hah. — Europe. 



Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Coll. Isaac Lea, LL.D. Coll. Dr. J. C. Jay. Coll. 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Hanley (Desc. Cat. p. 5) says, "P. oblongata, Say, is probably this shell, 

 although its beak and the number of accessory Talves is not mentiened." Say's 

 shell does not at all resemble D. dactylus. 



P. callosa, Lam., was described from some distorted specimens of D. dac- 

 tylus. I have seen several specimens in Mr. Lea's cabinet which are greatly 

 distorted in shape, the beaks being almost central, the shell much wider than 

 usual in proportion to its length, the posterior surface worn entirely smooth, 

 and anteriorly deeply pitted, instead of the usual radiating ribs. 



Subgenus Gitocextrum, Tryon. 1862. 

 D. Campechensis, Gmel. (Species.) 



Pbolas Ca-m pech e n s i s, Gmelin, Syst. Nat. 3216. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. 

 p. 3. Hanley, Desc. Cat. p.'e, t. 9, f. 44. Jay, Cat. 4th ed. p. 10. 

 Lister, Hist. Conch. t..432. 

 Dactylina Campechensis, (part.) Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. 

 viii. p. 382. H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 326. 

 " Campechiensis, (part.) Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 49. 



Pholas oblongata. Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1st ser. ii. p. 320. De Kay. Moll. 

 New York, p. 248. Gibbes, in Tuumey's Geology of South Carolina. 

 Kurtz, Cat. Shells N. and S. Carolina, p. 3. Slimpson, Check List E. 

 Coast Shells. 

 " Candcana, D'Orbigny, Moll. Sagra's Cuba, p. 215, t. 25, f. 18, 19. 

 Dactylina Condeana Chenu, Manuel, ii. f. 12. 

 Hab. — Southern United States. West Indies. 



Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Coll. A. A. Gould, M. D. ColL Wm. Stimpson, M. D. 

 Coll. Isaac Lea, LL.D. 



Lister's figure ofD. Campechensis represents very accurately a large 

 individual of this species, although it is doubtfully referred by some European 

 authors to the next species. The resemblance between this and the nest shell, 

 from Western South America, is so great that it would not be surprising if their 

 identity should be established hereafter. The only dilFerence is that our shell 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



is narrower in proportion to its length than the South American species, which 

 has about one-third of its posterior surface free from striae, while the striae in 

 the Campechensis are continued faintly over the entire posterior surface. 



Fholas oblongata, Say, has been entirely overlooked by European authors, 

 with the exception of Mr. Hanley, who has referred it doubtfully to D. d a c- 

 ty 1 u s. It is figured in Tuomev and Holmes' Pleiocene Fossils of S. Carolina, 

 t. 24, f. 5. 



D'Orbigny's Pholas Candeana is a half-grown shell of this species. 



The only specimens that I have seen having the dorsal valves belongs to ilr. 

 Isaac Lea. They are identical in form with those of D. C h i 1 o e n s i s. 



D. Chiloensis, King, (sp.) 



Pholas Chiloensis, King. Zool. Journ. v. p. 334, 1832. Gay, Hist. Nat. 

 Chili, viii. p. 381. Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, Thes. Conch, ii. p. 486, 

 t. 102, f. 1, 2. Philippi, Neiier Conch, iii. t. 1, f. 4, 5. D'Orbigny, 

 Voy. p. 498. 



Dactylina Chiloensis, Chenu, Manuel, ii. f. 14, 15. 



" Campechensis, (part.) Gray, Ann, and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 



382. H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 326. 

 " Campechiensis, (part.) Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 49. 



Pholas laqueaia, Sowerby, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1849. Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, 



Thes. Conch, ii. p. 486, t. 103, f. 19, 20. 

 Eab.—Vtvu. Chili. 



Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Coll. Isaac Lea, LL.D. Coll. J. C. Jay, M. D. Coll. 

 G. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Pholas laqueaia of Sowerby is a mere variety of Chiloensis, differing in 

 the greater prominence of the ribs and their arched scales. 



King, in his description, refers to Molina, Hist. Nat. Chili, p. 179, as authority 

 for the name ; but as it would be preposterous to allow such an obscure and 

 scant description as that of Molina's to remain as authority, I have thought it 

 best to use King's name in that connection. Gmelin (Syst. Nat. p. 3217) merely 

 copies Molina's description. 



Genus Monothyea, Tryon. 1862. 



Gen. Char. — Equivalve ; anterior hiatus long and narrow. Accessory plate 

 single, ovately triangular, with the base anterior and the nucleus subcentral. 

 Hinge processes cellular beneath. 



M. orient alls, Gmelin. (Species.) 



Pholas orientalis, Gmelin, Syst. Nat. 3216. Bosc, Hist. Nat. ii. p. 196. 



Bruguiere, Encyc. Meth. t. 168, f. 10. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 4. 



Chemnitz, Conch. Cab. viii. t. 101, f. 860. Dillwyn, Desc. Cat. p. 36. 



Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 5, t. 2, f. 2. Jay, Cat. 4th ed. p. 10. Lamarck, 



Anim. sans Vert. v. p. 444. Lamarck, Anim. sans Vert. (Desh. edit.) 



vi. p. 44. Lister, Hist. Conch, t. 431, f. 247. Sowerby. Monog. 



Pholas, Thes. Conch, ii. p. 486, t. 102, f. 3, 4. Wood, Gen.' Conch, t. 



14, f. 1, 2. Wood, Index Test. Pholas, t. 2, f. 1. 



Dactylina orientalis, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 382- 

 H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 326. Chenu, Man. Conch, ii. f. 16- 

 Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 49. 

 Pholas Siamensis. Spengler. 



" dactylus, Solander MSS. teste Gray. 

 Hab. — India. 



Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Coll. Isaac Lea, LL.D. Coll. J. C. Jav, M. D. Coll. 

 G. W. Tryon, Jr. 



This species is placed by Sowerby, Gray and Chenu in the genus Dactylina, 

 although it is so very different in its single accessory valve. Sowerby's figure 

 1862.] 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



of the back of the shell, including the dorsal accessory plate, is very good, and 

 it is strange that the subsequent systematists, H. and A. Adams and Chenu, 

 who must have been acquainted with the character of this plate, still leave the 

 species in Dactylina. 



Genus Xylophaga Turton. 

 Xylophaga, Turton, Conch, ditb. Brit. p. 253, 1822. Gray, Zool. Proc. p. 188, 



1847. Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. p. 380, 1851. H. and 



A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 326. 

 Teredo, Turton, Conch. Diet. 1819. 



Pholas, Deshayes, in Lamarck, An. sans Vert. vi. 1835. 

 Xylotrya, Leach, teste Menke, Syn. ed. 2, p. 121, 1830. Gray, Syn. Brit. Mns. 



p. T6, 1842. 

 X. d or s a 1 i s, Turton. 

 Xylophaga dors alls, Turton, Conch, dith. Brit. p. 253, t. 2, f. 4, 5. H. and 



A. Adams, Genera, iii. t. 89, f. 4, 4a 6 c. Alder, Cat. Northumb. Moll. 



p. 101. Brown, 111. Brit. Conch, p. 117, t. 50, f. 8—13. Catlow, 



Conch. Nomenc. p. 3. Chenu, Man. ii. f. 20, 21. Chenu, Encyc. Hist. 



Nat. Moll. t. 241—244. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 49. 



Fleming, Brit. Anim. p. 455. Forbes and Hanley, Brit. Moll. i. p. 90. 



t. 2, f. 3, 4. Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 382. 



Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 10. Jay, Cat. 4th ed. p. 9. Reeve, Conch. Syst. 



t. 22. Sowerby, Genera of Shells. Sowerby, Conch. Manual. 



Sowerby, Hlust. Brit. Shells, t. 1, f. 7. Sowerby, Monog. Xylophaga, 



Thes. Conch, ii. p. 503, t. 108, f. 103, 104. Thorpe, Brit. Mar. Conch. 



p. 32. 

 Teredo dorsalis, Turton, Conch. Diet. p. 185, 1819. 



Pholas xylophaga, Deshayes, in Lam. Anim. sans Vert. vi. p. 47, 1835. 



Hah. — England. 



Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Coll. J. C. Jay, M. D. Coll. G. W. Tryon, Jr. 



X. g 1 b s a, Sowerby. 



Xylophaga g 1 o b o s a, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. p. 110, 1835. Sowerby, Monog. 

 Xylophaga, Thes. Conch, ii. p. 503, t. 108, f. 101, 102. H. and A. 

 Adams, Genera, ii. p. 327. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 3. Chenu, 

 Man. Conch, ii. f. 22, 23. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 49. 

 Gray, Ann. and .Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 382. Hanley, Desc. 

 Cat. p. 10. Jay, Cat. 4th ed. p. 9. 

 Pholas gibbosa, D'Orbigny, Voy. Amer. Merid. Moll. p. 501. Gay, Hist. Nat. 



Chili, viii. p. 381. 

 Hab. — Valparaiso ; inhabiting wood at sixty fathoms. 

 Coll. J. C. Jay, M. D. 



This shell very closely resembles the English species, but may be distinguished 

 by its more depressed dorsal margin, by its greater posterior length, and by the 

 longitudinal portion of the ventral margin being slightly convex in outline, 

 whilst in X. dorsalis this margin is concave. 



Xylophaga cardissa, Gould, Otia Conchologtca, p. 241, Feb., 18G2. 



Hab. — Mergive Archipelago. 



Coll. Dr. A. A. Gould. 



I owe to Dr. Gould the pleasure of examining specimens of this new form of 

 Xylophaga, which is very distinct from the other species of the genus. 



Genus Talona, Gray. 



Talona, Gray, Syn. Brit. Mus. 1840. Gray, Proc. Zool. Soc. p. 188, 1847. 



Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 381. H. and A. Adams, 



Genera, ii. p. 329. 

 Pholas, (part.) Spengler, Sowerby, Hanley, etc. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



T. explanata, Spengler. (Sp.) 



Pholas explanata, Spengler, Skrivt. Nat. ii. pt. 1, 1791. 

 Talona explanata, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Xat. Hist. 2(i ser. viii., 1851. 

 H. and A. Adams, Genera, iii. t. 90, f. 2, 2a. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 

 2d ser. iii. p. 51. Murch, Cat. p. 3. 

 Pholas clausus, Gray, in Bowdich, Elera. 1822. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 3. 

 Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. (J, t. 11, f. 8. Jay, Cat. 4th ed. p. 10. Sowerby, 

 Monog. Pholas. Thes. Conch, ii. p. 498J t. 107, f. 74, 75. 

 Talona clausa Chenu, Man. Conch, ii. f. 34, 35, 1862. 

 Pholas Candidas^ Chemn, Conch. Cab. viii. f. 862, 1785. 

 Hab. — Western Africa. 



Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Coll. J. C. Jay, M. D. Coll. Isaac Lea, LL. D. Coll. 

 G. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Genus B.\rxea, Leach. 



Barnea, Leach, teste Risso, Hist. Nat. iv. p. 376, 1826. 



" Risso, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 326, 1853. 

 Barnia, Gray, Ana. and Mag Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. 1851. Leach, Moll. Great 

 Britain, p. 254, 1852. 



Typical Species. 



Margins of the valves regularly rounded^ hiatus long and narrow. 

 B. A u 8 1 r a 1 a s i ae. Gray. 



Barnia Australasiae, Gray, Brit. Mus. Gray, An:i. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d 

 ser. viii. p. 381. 



Barnea Australasiae, Fischer, Joarn. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 49. H. and A. 



Adams, Genera, ii. 

 Pholas Australasiae Sowerby, Mon. Pholas, Thes. Conch, ii. p. 488, 1. 106, 

 f. 73. 

 Hab. — Australia. 



This shell closely resembles B. Candida of England, but may be at once 

 distinguished by its much larger size and more anterior position of the umbones. 



B. Burmanica, Philippi. (Sp. ) 



Pholas Birmanica, Pailippi, Neiier Conchyl. iii. Pholas. t. 1, f. 1. 

 Barnia Burmanica, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 382. 

 Barnea Burmanica, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 326. 



Pholas Bakeri? Deshayes, Woodward's Manual, t. 23, f. 19. 



Barnea Bakeri? H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 326. 



Hab. — Burmah. 



The shape and sculpture of this shell, as figured by Philippi, remind one 

 strongly of our P. c o s t a t a ; it is much broader than either of the other species 

 of this section of Barnea. 



B. Bikcri I have not seen, nor could I find the original description ; but the 

 figure in Woodward appears to be the same as B u r m a u i c a. 



B. Candida, Linn. (Sp.) 



Pholas Candida, Linnaeus, Syst. Nat. 1111. Linnaeus, Mus. Ulric, p. 469. 

 Alder, Cat. Northumb. Moll. p. 100. Bosc, Hist. Nat. des Coq. ii. p. 

 195. Bouchard-Chantereau, Moll. Boulon, p. 7. Brown, 111. Conch. 

 Great Britain, p. 115, t. 48, f. G — 10. Bruguiere, Encyc. Meth. t. 168, 

 f. 11. Burrow, Elera. t. 3, f. 4. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 3. Chem- 

 nitz, Conch. Cab. viii. p. 358, t. 101, f. 861. CoUard des Cherres, Cat. 

 Moll. Finisterre, p. 9. Crouch, Introd. Lam. t. 2, f. 11. DaCosta, 

 Brit. Conch, p. 246. Deshayes, Moll. Espl. Sci. de I'Algerie, p. 109, 

 t. 9, D. L f. 4, 5, (Animal.) Deshayes, Traite Elem. i. pt. 2, p. 79, t. 



1862.] 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



3, f. 13, 14. Deshayes, Encyc. Meth. iii. p. 753. Dillwyn, Desc. Cat. 

 i. p. 36. Donovan, Brit. Shells, iv. t. 132. Fleming, Brit. Anim. p. 

 457. Forbes and Hanley, Brif. Moll. i. p. 117, t. 4, f. 1, 2. Gerville, 

 Coq. de la Manche, p. 10. Gmelin, Syst. Nat. p. 3215. Gualtieri, 

 Test. t. 105, f. 8. Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 5, t. 2, f. 3. Jay, Cat. 4th ed. 

 p. 9. Karsten, Mus. Lesk. p. 151. Lamarck, Anim. sans Vert. v. p. 

 444. Lamarck, (Desh. edit. ) vi. p. 44. Lister, Anim. Angl. p. 193, 

 t. 5, f. 39. Macgillivray, Moll. Aberd. p. 300. Mawe, Introd. Conch, 

 t. 3, f. 2. Menke, Syn. p. 73. Middendorif, Mai. Rossica, iii. p. 79. 

 Montagu, Test. Brit. p. 24. Miiller, Zool. Dan. prodr. p. 251. Pen- 

 nant, Brit. Zool. iv. p. 76. Philippi, Enum. Moll. Sicil. i. p. 3 and ii. 

 p. 4. Poli, Test. utr. Sicil. t. 7, f. 12, 13. Potiez et Michaud. Gal. 

 Moll. ii. p. 269. Pultney, Dorset. Cat. p. 26. Schroter, Einleit. Conch, 

 iii. p. 539. Sowerby, Illust. Brit. Conch, t. 1, f. 9. Sowerby, Monog. 

 Pholas, Thes. Conch, ii. p. 488, t. 103, f. 21—23. Thompson, feep. 

 Fauna Ireland, p. 2G3. Thorpe, Brit. Mar. Conch, p. -31. Turton, 

 Conch. Diet. p. 144, f. 79. Turton, Conch, dith. Brit. p. 10. Wood, 

 Gen. Conch, p. 79, t. 14, f. 3, 4. Wood, Index Test. Pholas, t. 2, f. 3. 

 Wyatt, Conch, p. 27, t. 3, f. 2. 



Barnia Candida, Leach, Moll. Great Britain, p. 255. Gray, Ann. and Mag- 

 Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 382. Gray, Figs. Moll. Anim. t. 338, f. G. 



Barnea Candida, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 326. Chenu, Man. Conch, 

 ii. f. 17, 18. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 49. 

 Pholas dactyloides, Delia Chiaje, Mem. iv. t. 65, f. 4. 



" papyraccd, Spengler, Skrivt. Nat. ii. pt. 1, t. 1, f. 4, 1791. (Not of his 



diagnosis.) Lister, Hist. Conch, t. 435, f. 278. 

 " silicula, Deshayes, in Lara. Anim. sans Vert. vi. p. 45, 1835. Anton, 

 Verzeich. der Conch, p. 1. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 4. Delessert, 

 Eec. t. 1, f. 19. Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. G. 

 bab. — England. Ireland. 

 Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Coll. J. C. Jay, M. D. Coll. Isaac Lea, LL. D. Col!. 



G. W. Tryon, Jr. 



B. lanceolata, D'Orbigny. (Sp.) 



Pholas lanceolata, D'Orb. Moll. Voy. Amer. Merid. p. 497, t. 77, f. 18, 19. 



JIab. — Patagonia. South of the Rio Negro. 



This shell appears to be distinct from B. Candida, although very nearly 

 allied to it. It is not so much inflated across the umbones as that species: it 

 is more narrowly elongate and acuminate at the buccal region, more rounded 

 posteriorly, and the hinge tooth is larger. D'Orbigny's figures also show a vast 

 difference in the great prominence of the concentric raised striae. 



The figures of D'Orbigny represent probably a young shell. 



Subgenus Anchomasa, Leach. 

 AscHOMASA, (genus,) Leach, Moll. Great Britain, p. 253. 



Ventral anterior margiri of the valves emarginaie ; hiatus short and wide. 

 B. Hani Hen sis, Philippi. (Sp.) 

 Pholas M a n i 1 1 e n s i s, Philippi, Zeitschr. fiir Malak. p. 72, 1847. Philippi, 



Neiier Conch, iii. Pholas. t. 1, f. 2. 

 Barnea Man ill en sis, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 32G. Fischer, Journ. 



Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 49. 

 Barnia Man ill en sis. Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 382, 

 1851. 

 Pholas ManillcB, Sowerby, Proc. Zool. Soc. p. 161. 1849. Sowerby. Monog. 

 Pholas, Thes. Conch, ii. p. 487, t. 103, f. 17. 18. Jay, Cat.' 4th. edit, 

 p. 10. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



Fholas fragilis, Sowerby, Proc. Zool. Soc. p. IGl, 1849. Sowerby, Monog. 

 Tbes. Conch, ii. p. 488, t. 108, f. 92, 93, 1849. 



Barnea fragilis, Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 49. 



Barnia fragilis, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 382. 



Hah. — Slanilla. Philippines. 



Coll. Acad. Xat. Sci. Coll. J. C. Jay, M. D. Coll. G. W. Tryon, Jr. 



The Pholas fragilis of Sowerby is undoubtedly identical with ilanillensis. 

 This species differs from B. similis in having a different shaped dorsal plate, 

 which is also much smaller in proportion to the valves, which are narrower, 

 with the umbones placed nearer the anterior end ; and by the extension of the 

 ribs over the whole posterior surface, which is quite plain in B. similis. 

 Barnea parva is a wider shell, with the umbones nearer the centre. 



B. P arv a, Pennant. (Sp.) 



Pholas parva. Pennant, Brit. Zool. iv. p. 77, t. 40, f. 13, 1777. Brown, 111. 

 Brit. Conch, t. 9, f. 11, 12. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 4. Dillwyn, 

 Desc. Cat. i. p.38. Fleming, Edin. Encyc. vii. p. 100. Fleming. Brit. 

 Anim. p. 457. Forbes and Hanley. Brit. Moll. i. p. Ill, t. 2, f. 2 : t. 4, 

 f. 1, 2. (Animal t. F. f. 3, 3a.) Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 5, t. 2, f. 6. Jay, 

 Cat. 4th edit. p. 10. Montagu, Test. Brit. p. 22, 1. 1, f. 7, 8. Philippi. 

 Neiier Conch, iii. Pholas, t. 2, f. 2. Sowerby, Illust. Brit. Conch, t. 1, 

 f. 10. Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, Thes. Conch, ii. p. 487, f. 31, 32. 

 Thorpe, Brit. Mar. Conch, p. 32, f. 71. Turton, Conch. Diet. p. 143. 

 Turton, Conch, dith. Brit. p. 9. Wood, Gen. Conch, p. 82. Wood, 

 Index Test. t. 2, f. 6. 

 Barnia parva. Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 382. Gray. Figs. 



Moll. Anim. t. 338, f. 10. 

 Barnea p a r v a, H. and A. Adams, Genera, iii. t. 89, f, 3, 3a, b. Chenu, Man. ii. 

 f. 19. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2 ser. iii. p. 49. 

 Anchomasa Pennantiana, Leach, Moll. Gt. Britain, p. 253. 

 Pholas crenulatus, Solander. Sp(^ngler, Skrivt. Nat. ii. pt. 1, p. 92. 



" daclylus, yar. Deshayes. In Lamarck Anim. sans Vert. vi. p. 45, note. 

 " dactyloides, Lamarck, Anim. sansYert. v. p. 445. Menke, Syn. p. 73. 

 ■ ligameniina, Deshayes, TraiteElem.p. 80, t. f. 11, 12. Catlow, Conch. 



Nomenc. p. 4. 

 • tuberculatns, Turton, Conch, dith. Brit. p. 5, t. 1, f. 7, 8. Brown, 

 Illust. Brit. Conch, p. 115, t. 49, f. 12, 13. Chenu, 111. Conchyl. t. 3, 

 f. 3. Fleming. Brit. Anim. p. 547. Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 9. Thorpe, 

 Brit. Mar. Conch, p. 30. Wood, Index Test. Supp. t. 1, f. 3. 

 JJa^/. — England. 



Coll. Acad. Nat. Sciences. Coll. J. C. Jay, M. D. Coll. Isaac Lea, LL. D. 

 Coll. G. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Forbes and Hanley (Brit. Moll.), after an examination of the original speci- 

 men of Dr. Turtori's Pholas tuberculatvs, pronounced it to be a monstrosity of 

 B. parva, and not a synonym of D. d a c t y 1 u s, as Gray and others sup- 

 posed. 



B. snbtruncata, Sowerby. (Sp.) 



Pholas snbtruncata, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. p. 69, 1834. Catlow, Concb. 

 Nomenc. p. 4. D'Orbigny, Moll. Yoy. Amer. Merid. p. 499. Hanley, 

 Desc. Cat. p. 6. Jay, Cat. 4th edit. p. 10. Muller, Syn. Test. p. 236. 



Pholas lamellosa, D'Orb. Yoy. Am. Merid. p. 498, t. 77, f. 20, 21. 



Ifab. — Payta, Peru, Isle Plata (subtruncata); Patagonia, south of Rio 

 Negro (^lamellosa.) 



Judging from the descriptions, D'Orbigny's species is founded on a variety 

 of subtruncata in which the anterior ribs are much more prominent. The 

 obtusely rounded form of the posterior end and the nearly parallel dorsal and 

 ventral margins distinguish this from B. parva, to which, however, it is very 



1862.] 



/ 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



closely allied. It may eventually prove to be a mere variety of that shell. The 

 absence of a posterior accessory plate prevents this species from being placed 

 in the genus Pholas, where it is nearly allied to P. t r u n c a t a. 



B. Erythrasa, Gray. 



Barnia E r y t h r se a, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 382, 1851, 



Barnea K r y t h r ae a, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 326. 



Hab. — Red Sea. 



This shell, which has not yet been figured, seems to be allied to B. s i m i I i s, 

 but is probably distinct. 



B. s i m i 1 i s, Gray. (Sp.) 



Pholas simil is, Gray, in Yates' New Zealand. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 4. 

 Jay, Cat. 4th edit. p. 10. Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, Thes. Conch, ii. p. 

 487, t. 103, f. 12— 14. 

 Barnia simil is, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 382. 

 Barnea s i m i 1 i s, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 32G. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 

 2d ser. iii. p. 49. 

 Pholas aniipodum, Philippi, Zeitschr. fur Malak. p. vl, 1847. 



" antipodarum, Philippi. Gray, Ann. and Mag. N. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 382. 

 1851. 

 Hab. — New Zealand. 

 Coll. Acad. Nat. Sciences. Coll. J. C. Jay, M. D. Coll. G. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Genus Navea, Gray. 

 Navea, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 385. 

 N. n u ci f e r a, Fabricius (sp.) 

 Pholas nucifera, Fabricius. Spengler, Skrivt.Nat. iv. p. 40, t. 10, f. 4, 9. 



Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 50. 

 Navea nucifera. Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 385. H. and 

 A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 328. Morch, Cat. p. 2. 

 According to Dr. Gray, resembling tenuis, but appears to be shorter in 

 front and longer and more rounded behind. 



N. subglobosa, Gray. 



Navea subglobosa, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 385, 

 1851. Ghenu, Man. Conchyl. ii. f. 28, 29. H. and A- Adams, Genera, 

 iii. t. 89, f. 6, G, a, G, b. Fischer, Journ. Conchyl. 2d ser. iii. p. 50. 

 Hab. — California. 



N. tenuis. Gray. 



Navea tenuis, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 385, 1851. H. 



and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 328. Fischer, Journ. Conchyl. 2d ser. 



iii. p. 50. 

 Hab.— ? 



Genus Zirph^ea, Leach. 

 ZiRPH.EA, Leach. H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. 



ZirfcBU^ Leach. Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 385, 1851. 

 Z. constricts, Sowerby (sp.) 

 Pholas contricta, Sowerby, Proc. Zool. Soc. p. 161, 1849. Sowerby, Monog. 



Pholas, Thes. Conch, ii. p. 489, t. 104, f. 27, 28. 

 Zirphsea constricts, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 327. Fischer, Journ. 



Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 50. 

 Zirphaea constrict a. Gray, Ann. and Mag. N. H. 2d ser. viii. p. 385, 1851. 

 Hab. — Straits of Sunda. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



Fischer (Journ. Conch.) believes this to be an immature shell : however this 

 may be, there can be no doubt that it is a good species. 



Z. c r i 3 p a t a, Linnseus. (Sp.) 



Pholas c r i 3 p a t a, Lian. Syst. Nat. 1111. Linn. Mas. Ulric, ii. p. 4'j;'. Alder. 



Cat. Northumb. Moll. p. 100. Anton, Yerzeich. der Conchyl. p. 1. 



Bosc. Hist. Nat. des Coq. ii. p. 195. Bouchard-Chantreaux, Moll. 



Boulon. p. 7. Brown, 111. Conch. Gt. Brit. p. 114, t. 48, f. 1 — 5. 



Bruguiere, Encyc. Meth. t. 169, f. 5 — 7. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 



3. Chemnitz, 'Conch. Cab. viii. t. 102, f. 872—874. Collard des 



Cberres, Cat. Moll. Finisterre, p. 9. Dekay, Moll. N. York, p. 247, t. 



32, f. 306, a, b. Deshayes, Traitc Elem. i. pt. 2, p. 77. Dillwyn. Deso. 



Cat. i. p. 40. Donovan, Brit. Shells, ii. p. 3, t. 62. Fleming. Edinb. 



Encyc. vii. p. 100. Fleming, Brit. Anim. p. 456. Forbes and Hanley, 



Brit. Moll. i. t. 4, f. 3, 4, 5. Gerville, Cat. Coq. Manche, p. 10. 



Gmelin, Syst. Nat. p. 3216. Gould, Invert. Mass. p. 27. Hanley. Desc. 



Cat. p. 7. Jay, Cat. 4th edit. p. 10. Lamarck, Anim. sans Vert. v. 



p. 445. Lamarck, (edit. Brux.) ii. p. 518. Lamarck, (edit. Desh.) vi. 



p. 46. Lister, Anim. Angl. p. 192, t. 5, f. 38. Macgillivrar, Moll. 



Aberd. p. 306. Montagu, Test. Brit. p. 23. Olafsen, Isl. f. 4, 6. Pen- 

 nant, Brit. Zooi. iv. p. 77, t. 40, f. 12. Petiver, Gazoph. t. 79, f. 13. 



Potiez et Mich. Gal. ii. p. 268. Pultney, Dorset Cat. p. 27. Russell, 



Esses (Mass.) Journ. Nat. Hist. i. p. 50. Schroeter, Einleit. iii. p. 541. 



Schumacher. Essai d'ua Nov. Syst. p. 96. Sowerby, Jllust. Brit. 



Shells, t. 1, f. 11. Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, Thes. Conch, ii. p. 489, 



t. 104, f. 37. Spengler, Skrivt. Nat. ii. pt. 1, p. 96. Stimpson. Shells 



N. England, p. 25. Stimpson, Check-List, E. Coast Shells. Thorpe. 



Brit. Mar. Coach, p. 29. Turton, Conch. Diet. p. 146. Turton, Conch. 



dith. Brit. p. 6. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S. p. 2. Wood. Gen. Conch. 



t. 15, f. 4, 5. Wood, Index Test. t. 2, f. 5. Wyatt, Conch, p. 28. 



Zirphasa crispata. H. and A. Adams, Genera, iii. t. 89, f. 5 — 5a. Morch. 

 Cat. p. 3. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 50. Chenu,Man. ii. 

 f. 26, 27. 



Zirfaea crispata. Gray, Figs. Moll. Anim. t. 338, f. 5 and t. 339, f. 5. Gray. 

 Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 385. 



Thurlosia crispata, Leach, Moll. Gt. Britain, p. 252. 



Mya crispata, Linn. Faun. Suec. 2125. 



Pholas bifrons, Da Costa, Brit. Conch, p. 242, t. 16, f. 4. 



Solen crupus, Gmelin, Syst. Nat. p. 3228. 



Pholas crispa, Blainville, Malacol. t. 79, f. 7. 



•• parva, Da Costa, Conch, p. 247. Donovan. Brit. Shells, ii. t. 69. Bru- 

 guiere, Encyc. Meth. t. 169, f. 5. Lister, Hist. Conch, t. 436, f. 279. 



Hab. — England, France, Sweden, Denmark, Northern Coast United States. 

 West Coast America? (Carpenter.) 



Coll. Acad. Nat. Sciences. Coll. Isaac Lea, LL. D. Coll. J C. Jay. M. D. 

 Coll. G. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Z.? J u 1 a n, Adanson. (Sp.) 



Pholas J u I a n, Adans. Senegal, p. 260, t. 19, f. 1. 



Zirphaea? J u 1 a n, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 327. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 



2d ser. iii. p. 50. 

 Zirfaea? J u 1 a n, Graj-, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 385. 

 " Mulan, Gray, Figs. Moll. Anim. t. 338, f. 2. 

 Hab. — Senegal. 



1862.] 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Subfamily JOUANNETIN^, Tryon. 

 Genus Pholadidea, TurtoD. 

 Pholadidea, Turton, Conch. Diet. p. 147, 1810. Gray, Zool. Proc. p. 188, 1847. 

 Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. 1851. Ciienu, Man. 

 Conchyl. ii. Fischer, Journ. Conchyl. 2d ser. iii. H. and A. Adams, 

 Genera, ii. 

 Pholadidoidea, Goodall, teste Blainville, Diet. Sci. Nat. xxxix. p. 535, 1826. 

 Pholadididea, Agassiz, Nomenc. Zool. 1846. 

 C'admtisia, Leach, Moll. Gt. Brit. p. 254, 1852. 

 Pholidcea, Leach, teste Swainson, Malacol. 1840. 



*Siphonal valves without^any iuhular elongation and not folded. 

 P. p a p y r a c e a, Solander. (Sp.) 



Pholas papyracea, Solander, MSS. Turton, Conch, dith. Brit. p. 2. t. 1 , f. 

 1—4. Brown, 111. Brit. Conch, p. 114, t. 49, f. 4, 6, 7, 8, 9. Catlow, 

 Conch. Nomenc. p. 4. Chenu, 111. Conch. Pholas, t. 3, f. 1. Fleming, 

 Brit. Anim. p. 456. Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 9. Jay, Cat. 4th edit. p. 

 10. Mawe, Conch, t. 3, f. 5. Philippi, Conchyl. iii. Pholas, t. 2, f. 3. 

 Reeve, Conch. Syst. t. 2, f. 3. Sowerby, Genera, Pholas, f. 3. Sowerby, 

 Conch. Man. f. 56. Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, Thes. Conch, ii. p. 497, 

 t. 106, f. 66. Thorpe, Brit. Mar. Conch, p. 29. Wood, Index Test. 

 Supp. t. 1, f. 3. 

 Pholadidea papyracea, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 384. 

 Gray, Figs. Moll. Anim. t. 338, f. 8. H. and A. Adams, Genera, iii. 

 t. 90, f. 1, la, \h. Chenu, Man. Concli. ii. f. 30, 31. Fischer, Journ. 

 Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 51. Forbes and Hanley, Brit. Moll. i. p. 123, t. 

 5, f. 3—6 ; Animal t. F, f. 4. Sowerby, 111. Brit. Shells, t. 1, f. 12. 

 Woodward, Man. t. 23, f. 20. 

 Pholas lamellata (voung shell), Turton, Conch. Dith. Brit. p. 4, 1. 1, f. 5, 6. 

 Brown, III. Brit. Conch, p. 114, t. 49, f. 10, 11. Chenu, 111. Conch. 

 Pholas, t. 3, f. 2. Fleming, Brit. Anim. p. 456. Wood, Index Test. 

 Supp. t. 1, f. 3. 

 Pholas striata, Blainville, Man. Malacol. t. 8 his, f. 7. Cuvier, Peg. Anim. 

 (edit. Griffith), t. 8, f. 1. Cuvier (Henderson, edit.), t. 41, f. 1. 

 Wyatt, Conch, t. 3, f. 5. 

 Pholadidea loscomhia, Turton, Conch. Diet. p. 147. 

 Pholadidea Goodallii, Blainville, Diet. Sc. xxsvii. p. 532. 

 Cadmusia Solanderiana Leach, Moll. Gt. Brit. p. 254, t. 12, f, 1, 2. 

 Pholas Vibonensis, (fossil,) Philippi, Enum. Moll. Sicil. ii. p. 4, t. 13, f. 5. 

 Zirfcea? Vibonensis, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 385. 

 Hab. — Europe. 



Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Coll. Isaac Lea, LL. D. Coll. J. C. Jay, M. D. Coll. 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Pholas 1 a m e 1 1 a t a of Turton is the young of this species, although for a 

 long time it was considered distinct. The differences between the young and 

 mature shells in this family are so great, that in several cases the former have 

 been described as different. Even the mature shell varies much, and the 

 result has been the creation of a number of species which more recent authors 

 have been obliged to suppress. 



P. sp athulata, Sowerby. (Sp.) 



Pholas spathulata, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. p. 162, 1849. Sowerby, Monog. 



Pholas, Thes. Conch, ii, p. 497, t. 106, f. 69, 70. 

 Pholadidea spathulata, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 

 384. H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 329. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 

 2d ser. iii. p. 51, 

 i7a6.— New Zealand, 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



This shell somewhat resembles P. p a p y r a c e a in its external markings, 

 but it is narrower, longer, more acximiuate posteriorly and the impressei rib 

 more oblique. The form of the cup-shaped appendage is also different. 



P. s u 1 c a t a, Brown. (Sp.) 



Pholas sulcata. Brown, III. Conch. Gt. Brit. p. 115, t. 48, f. 17, 18. 

 Pholadidea s u 1 c a t a, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 329. Fischer, Journ. 

 de Conchyl. 2d ser. iii. p. 51. Forbes and Hanley, Brit. Moll. i. 

 p. 128. 

 Hah. — England. 



Only a single valve of this shell has been found ; it agrees very nearly 

 with the young of P. p ap y r a c e a, but Capt. Brown is confident of its spe- 

 cific value. 



P. ovoid ea, Gould. (Sp.) 



Pholas ovoidea, Gould, Jour. Bost. Soc. N. Hist. vi. p. 3S8, t. 15, f. 1. 



Parapholas ovoidea, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 330. Fischer, Journ. 



Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 52. 

 Pholadidea ovoidea, Carpenter, Rep. on W. Coast Shells. Carpenter. Zool. 

 Proc. 1856, p. 198. 



Hab. — Lower California. 



Coll. A. A. Gould, M. D. 



This species probably belongs in the genus Pholadidea, although its position 

 •cannot be accurately determined on account of the loss of its dorsal valves. 

 Its form and sculpture will readily distinguish it from the other species. 



Subgenus Talonella, Gray. 

 Talonella, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 385, 1851. 



Sijihonal valves without any tubular prolongation, and with a longitudinal and 



transverse fold. 

 P. t rid ens. Gray. 

 Pholas (Talonella) t r i d e n s, Grav, Brit. Mus. Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, Thes. 



Conch, ii. p. 498, t. 106, 'f. 60, 61. 

 Pholadidea t rid ens, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 385. 

 H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 329. Fischer, Journ. Conchyl. 2d 

 ser. iii. p. 51. 

 Hah. — Monte Christo. 



The form of the cup distinguishes this curious little species from all others. 

 Although so small, the shell is adult, as is evidenced by the presence of the 

 anterior ventral callous plate. 



Subgenus Hatasia, Gray. 

 Hatasia, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 385, 1851. 



Siphonal valves uitha tubular shelly prolongation. 

 1. P. melanura, Sowerby. (Sp.) 

 Pholas melanura, Sowerbv, Proc. Zool. Soc. p. 70, 1834. Sowerby, Monog. 



Pholas, Thes. Conch, ii. p. 499, t. 107, f. 78, 79. Catlow, Conch. 



Nomenc. p. 4. Conrad, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sc. 2d ser. ii. p. 335, 1854. 



D'Orbigny, Moll. Voy. Amer. Merid. p. 499. Miiller, Syn. Test. Viv. 



p. 238. 

 Pholadidea melanura, Gray, Ann. and Mag. 2d ser. viii. p. 385. H. and 



A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 329. Carpenter, Rep. on West Coast Mol- 



lusca. Carpenter, Cat. Mazatlan Shells, p. 8. Chenu, Man. Conch. 



ii. f. 32, 33, Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 51. 

 1862.] 




214 PROCEEPINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Penitella Wihonii, Conrad, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. p. 156, Feb. 1849. Conrad, 

 Journ. Acad. Nat. Sc. 2d ser. i. p. 279, t. 39, f. 4. 



Hab. — Lower California. 



Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Coll. J. C. Jay. M. D. Coll. G. W. Tryon, Jr. 



This splendid shell may be readily distinguished from the other two species 

 of the subgenus Hatasia by its much larger size. In the form of its cup-shaped 

 appendage it is allied to the following species : 



By a typographical error in Conrad's description of P. Wihonii in the 

 Journal of the Academy, reference is made to fig. 5 instead of fig. 4 ; this has 

 led Dr. Gray to consider the figure a bad representation of the species, and 

 to mistake the scope intended to be given by Mr. Conrad to the genus 

 Penitella. 



P. quadra, Sowerby. (Sp.) 



Pholas quadra, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. p. 71, 1834. Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, 

 Thes. Conch, ii. p. 499, t. 106, f. 62, 63. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. 

 p. 4. D'Orbigny, Moll. Voy. Amer. Merid. p. 500. Hanley, Desc. 

 Cat. 4th edit. p. 10. Miiller, Syn. Test. Viv. p. 238. 

 Pholadidea quadra. Gray, Ann. and Mag. 2d ser. viii. p. 3S5. H. and A. 

 Adams, Genera, ii. p. 329. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 51. 

 Hab. — Monte Christo. 

 Coll. J. C. Jay, M. D. 



Resembles ,tu bi fera very closely, but the posterior appendage is four- 

 lobed, whilst in t u b i f e r a it consists of two reflected lobes ; from P. t r i- 

 d e n s it may be distinguished, besides the subgeneric differences, by its 

 anterior dorsal plates being more spread out over the dorsal surface of the 

 shell. 



P. t u b i f e r a, Sowerby. (Sp.) 



Pholas tubifera, Sowerby, Proc. Zool. Soc. p. 71,1834. Sowerby, Monog. 

 Pholas, Thes. Couch, ii. p. 499, t. 106, f. 64, 65. Adams, Panama 

 Shells, p. 302. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 4. D'Orbigny, Moll. Voy. 

 Amer. Merid. p. 499. Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 8. Jay, Cat. 4th edit, 

 p. 10. Muller, Syn. Test. Viv. p. 238. 

 Pholadidea tubifera. Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 385. 

 H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 329. Fischer, Journ. Conchvl. 2d 

 ser. iii. p. 51. 

 Hah. — Panama ; West Colombia. 

 Coll. J. C. Jay, M. D. 



Genus Parapholas, Conrad. 



Pabapholas, Conrad, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. p. 121, Dec. 1848. Journ. Acad. 



Nat. Sc. 2d ser. i. pt. 3, p. 214, and ii. pt. 4, p. 335. Gray, Ann. 



and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 380. H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. 



The genus Penitella has been referred by many authors to the synonymy of 



this genus. Mr. Conrad is almost universally credited with Penitella ; which, 



however he merely adopted from Valenciennes, without giving any description 



of its characters. 



Dr. Gray includes the P. p e n i t a of Conrad under a section of Parapholas, 

 described as having a single impressed rib and single posterior umbonal valve; 

 while the other species have two impressed ribs and the posterior dorsal ca- 

 vity divided. 



I have thought it best to restore for this shell the original generic name of 

 Penitella. 



P. Californica, Conrad. 



Pholas Californica, Conrad, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sc. vii. p. 236, t. 18, f. 5. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 3. Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 8, t. 9, f. 43. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



Jay, Cat. 4th edit. p. 9. Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, Thes. Conch, ii. 

 p. 491, t. 102, f. 5, 6, 7. 

 Parafholas Californica, Conrad, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. p. 121, 1848. Con- 

 rad, Joarn. Acad. Nat. Sc. 2d ser. i, p. p. 214, and ii. p. 335. Carpen- 

 ter, Zool. Proc. p. 209, 1856. Carpenter, Rep. on W. Coast MoUusca. 

 Carpenter, Check-List W. Coast Shells. 

 I'holas Janelli, Deshayes, Proc. Zool. p. 357, 1839. Deshayea, Guerin'3 

 Mag. Zool. t. 14, 15, 16, 1840. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 3. Chenn, 

 111. Conch. Pholas, t. 3, f. 5. 

 Parapholas Janelli, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 330. Chenu, Man. 

 Conch, ii. f. 41, 42. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 52. 

 Martesia C ali for nic a, Chenu, Mon. Conch, ii. f. 53. 

 Hab. — California. 

 Coll. Acad. Nat. Sciences. Coll. J. C. Jay, M. D. Coll. G. W. Tryon, Jr. 



P. q u a d r i z n a 1 i s, Spongier. (Sp.) 



Pholas quadrizonalis (young shell), Spengler. Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, 



Thes. Conch, ii. p. 492, t. 108, f. 88, 89. 

 Parapholas quadrizonalis. Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. 

 II. and A. Adams, Genera, iii. t. 90, f. 4, 4a. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 

 2d ser. iii. p. 52. 

 Pholax Incii (adult), Sowerby, Zool. Proc. 1849. Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, 



Thes. Conch, ii. p. 491, t. 105, f. 45, 46. 

 Hab. — Torres' Straits. 



Genus Penitella, Valenciennes. 

 Penitella, Valenciennes, Voy. Venus, atlas, t. 24, (no description), (part.) 

 Journ. Conrad, Acad. Nat. Sc. 2d ser. ii. p. 335. 

 Parapholas (part.). Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. Carpen- 

 ter, Zool. Proc. 1856. 

 PhoJadidea (part.), Carpenter, Rep. on W. Coast Mollnsca and Check-List. 

 I cannot find that the text of the Mollnsca of Voy. Venus was published, 

 but the figure and the name printed on the plate sufficiently indicate the 

 genus. The three other species of Valenciennes I am unable to make out. 

 No. 2 resembles Martesia striata. No. 4 is a very young shell. 



P. pen it a, Conrad. (Sp.) 



Pholas pen it a, Conrad, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sc. vii. p. 237, t. 18, f. 7. Jay, 



Cat. 4th edit. p. 10. 

 Parapholas pen it a, Carpenter, Zool. Proc. p. 210, 1856. Carpenter, Rep. 



on West Coast Mollusca. 

 Pholadidea pen it a, Carpenter, Check-List W. Coast Shells. Carpenter, Rep. 

 on W. Coast Mollusca. 

 Pholas concamerata, Deshayes, Rev. Zool. p. 357, 1839. Deshayes, 

 Guerin's Mag. Zool. t. 17, 1840. Chenu, HI. Conchyl. Pholas, t. 3, 

 f. 4. Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, Thes.^ Conch, ii. p. 497, t. 106, f. 07, 08. 

 Parapholas concamerata, Chenu, Man. ii. f. 43, 44. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 

 2d ser. iii. p. 52. H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 330. Gray, Ann. 

 and Mag. N. H. 2d ser. viii. p. 383. 

 Pholas cucidlata, Gray, Syn. Br. Mus. 1840. 

 Penitella Conradi, Valenciennes, Voy. Venus, atlas, t. 24, f. 1. Conrad, 



Journ. Acad. Nat. Sc. 2d ser. ii. p. 335. 

 Pholas Darwinii, Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, Thes. Conch, ii. p. 490, t. 107, f. 



^ 76, 77. 

 Zirf(zal Darwinii, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 385. 



1862.] 




216 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Jouannetia Darwinii, H. and A. Adams, ii. p. 330. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 

 2d ser. iii. p. 51. Chenu, Manuel, ii. f. 39, 40. 



Pholas cornea ? Sowerby, Zool. Proc. 1834, p. 72. Catlow, Conch. NoiSenc. 

 p. 3. Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 9. 



Hah. — California, (penita.) W. Columbia, ^cornea.) Ghiloe (Danoinii.) 



Coll. Acad. Nat. Sciences. 



P. Darwinii, Sowb. is the young of this species ; I have also included 

 Sowerby's P. cornea, as his description seems in the main to correspond, I 

 cannot understand why several of Sowerby's and D'Orbigny's species were 

 omitted from Sowerby's Monograph and are not contained in Gray. Nor is 

 any reference made to them. 



Genus Jouannetia, Desmoulins. 

 Jouannetia, Chas. Desmoulins, Bull. Linu. Soc. Bordeaux, ii. p. 244. Gray, 



Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 382. H. and A. Adams, 



Genera, ii. p. 330. Chenu, Man. ii. f. 36. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 



2d ser. iii. p. 51. 

 Triomphalia, Sowerby, Monog. Thes. Conch, ii. p. 500, 1849. Sowerby, Zool. 



Proc. 1849. 

 Pholas, (part.) Deshayes, in Lam. An. sans Vert. vi. p. 46. 



* Valves with two impressed radiating grooves. 

 J. Cumin gii, Sowerby. (Sp.) 

 Triomphalia Cum in gii, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. p. 161, 1849. Sowerby, 



Monog. Triomphalia, Thes. Conch, ii. p. 502, t. 106, f. 56, 57. 

 Jouannetia Cumingii, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 382. 

 H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 330. Chenu, Man. Conch, ii. f. 38. 

 Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 51. 

 Hah. — Philippines. 



This beautiful little species merits the name of the following instead of that 

 which it bears, being almost entirely spherical. 



J. globosa, Quoy. (Sp.) 



Pholas globulosa, Quoy, Voy. Astrolabe, Mollusques, p. 549, t. 85, f. 16 — 18. 

 Triomphalia globosa, Sowerby, Proc. Zool. Soc. p. 160, 1849. Sowerby, 



Monog. Triomph. Thes. Conch, ii. p. 501, t. 106, f. 54, 55. . 

 Jouannetia globosa. Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 382. 

 H. and A. Adams, Genera, iii. t. 90, f. 3, 3a b. Chenu, Man. ii. f. 36. 

 Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iiii. p. 51. 

 Jouannetia globulosa. Gray, Figs. Moll. Anim. t. 338, f. 3. 

 Hah. — Philippines. 



Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Coll. G. W. Tryon, Jr. 



This shell is not so round as J. Cumingii, being somewhat ovate in form. 

 It is also a smaller species, and differs in the posterior margin of the right 

 valve being toothed. In the latter respect it resembles J. pectinata, but 

 the teeth are larger and not so numerous, and the surface of the valves is 

 bisulcate. 



** Valves ivith a subcentral impressed radiating groove. 

 Subgenus Pholadopsis, Conrad. 

 Genus Pholadopsis, Conrad, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 156, 1849. 



As Conrad's type species diflfers from the others in having but one radiating 

 groove, Dr. Gray has very properly separated it as a subgenus. 



J. pectinata, Conrad. (Sp.) 



Pholadopsis pectinata, Conrad, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. 2d ser. i. p*. 279, t. 

 39, f. 3. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPniA. 217 



Jouannetia pectinata, Grav. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 3S3. 



H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 330. Fischer, Journ. Coneh. 2d ser. 



iii. p. 51. 

 Triomphalia pulcherrlma, So^rerby, Zool. Proc. p. 161, 1849. Sowerby, 



Monog. Triompli. Ties. Conch, ii. p. 501, t. 106, f. 5S, 59. 

 Jouannetia pulcherrima, Chenn, Man. ii. f. 37. 

 Hab. — California. W. Colombia. 



Genus Maktesia, Leach. 



Maetesia, Leach, MSS. Blainville, Diet. Sci. Nat. 1824. Blainville, Malacol. 



p. 632, 1S25. Grav, Zool. Proc. p. ISS, 1S47. Gray, Ann. and Ma^. 



Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 350. 

 Mactresia, Gray, Syn. Brit. Mus. p. 91, 1842. (Typographical error. ) 



*Valves tcith two impressed ribs, the kinder one oblique ; the anterior dorsal mar- 

 ginal re/lection depressed. — Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. p. 3S3, 1S51. 

 M. branchial a, Gould. (Sp.) 

 Pholas branchiata, Gould, Bost. Proc. p. 290, 1S45. Jay, Cat. p. 9. 



Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, Thes. Conch, ii. p. 493, t. 108, f. 82, &3. 

 Martesia branchiata. Gray, Ann. and Mag. 2d ser. viii. p. 383. H. and A. 

 Adams, Genera, ii. p. 331. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 52. 

 Hab. — Africa. 

 . Coll. J. C. Jay, M. D. 



This shell differs from the following in the dorsal plate being bilobed pos- 

 teriorly, around a portion of the dorsal posterior integument, and in the 

 absence of radiating crenulations on the anterior third of the surface of the 

 yalve. 



M. calya, Sowerby. (Sp.) 



Pholas calya, Sowerby, Proc. Zool. Soc. p. 69, 1834, and p. 162, 1835. 

 Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, Thes. Conch, p. 493, t. 105, f. 51 — 53. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomene. p. 3. Mailer, Syn. Test. Viy. p. 237. 

 Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 7. 

 Parapholas calya, Carpenter, Mazatlan Shells, p. 9. 



Martesia calya. Gray, Ann. and Mag. viii. p. 3S3. H. and A. Adams, Genera, 

 ii. p. 331. Carpenter, Rep. on W. Coast Mollusca. Chenu, Man. ii. 

 f. 45 — 17. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 52. 

 Pholas acuminata, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. p. 70, 1S34. Sowerby, Monec. 

 Pholas. Thes. Conch, ii. p. 492. t. 105, f. 48—50. Catlow, Conchl 

 Nomene. p. 3. Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 8, t. 9, f. 30. Jay. Cat. 4th ed- 

 p. 10. Miiller, Syn. Test. Viy. p. 237. 

 Parapholas acuminata, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. yiii. H. and 

 A. Adams, Genera, ii. Carpenter. W. Coast Report, Check List, and 

 Mazatlan Shells, p. 12. 

 Martesia acuminata, Chenu, Man. ii. f. 56. 

 Parapholas bisulcata, Conrad. Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. 2d ser. i. p. 2T9',. t. 39<_ 



f. 5. 

 Hab. — California. Mazatlan. Panama. 



Cab. Acad. Nat. Sci. Cab. J. C. Jay, M. D. Cab. G. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 The yeryyariable nature of the dorsal plate has caused tlie erection of thsee. 

 species for this shell. Mr. P. P. Carpenter, in his Catalogue 9f Mazr.tsan 

 Shells, says of P. acuminata, "The author of this species distinguish&s it 

 from calya by the shape of the laminae and posterior porlion, which are 

 variable in both forms, and by the character of the umbonal shield. This last 

 is the only constant character of difference. It is not only smaller, not pro- 

 jecting beyond the dorsal plate, (which is not the result of age, beina; foujad in 

 1862.] 15 




218 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



all the specimens,) but, in all the specimens allowing of observation, it is 

 turned in all around, instead of at the anterior portion only, as in c a 1 v a. 

 The external surface also is generally rougher, and the posterior gap smaller, 

 not displaying the bipartite lamina so clearly. Still, as the shells exactly 

 agree in all other respects, it is probable that these diiferences only result from 

 changes in situation. All the calvje were taken out of Spondylus ; all the 

 acuminatfe were sent loose ; and, from their extremely perfect condition, 

 ■were probably extracted from clay or wood. If the latter, the irregularities of 

 the decaying timber might cause the roughening of the plate-surface. The ori- 

 ginal specimens of acuminata, however, were taken out of argillaceous lime- 

 stone." 



Specimens in Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. exhibit intermediate characters. 



** Valves luith a single suhcentral impressed rib; the anterior dorsal reflection 

 close-pressed, and furnished with an elevated internal rib. — Gray, Ann. and 

 Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 383. 



M. curt a, Sowerby. (Sp.) 



Pholas curta, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. p. 71, 1834. Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, 



Thes. Conch, ii. p. 944, t. 104, f. 33, 34. Hanlev, Desc. Cat. p. 9. 



Jay, Cat. 4th ed, p. 10. MuUer, Syn. Test. p. 239, t. 108, f. 105. 



Pholadidea curta, Carpenter, Rep. on W. Coast MoUusca. 

 Martesia curta, Gray, Ann. and Mag. viii. p. 384. H. and A. Adams, 

 Genera, ii. p. 331. Chenu, Man. ii. f. 51. Fischer, Journ. Conch, 

 2d ser. iii. 

 Hah. — Panama. 

 Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Coll. J. C. Jay, M. D. 



M. intercalata, Carpenter. 



Martesia intercalata, Carpenter, Cat. Mizatlan Sheila, p. 13. 

 Hab. — Mazatlan. 



M. multistriata, Sowerby. (Sp.) 



Pholas multistriata, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. 1849. Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, 



Thes. Conch, ii. p. 494, t. 104, f. 35, 36. 

 Martesia multistriata, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 331. Fischer, 



Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 52. Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d 



ser. viii. p. 3S3. 

 Hah. — Australia. 



"Resembling Ph. curta, but the strirc on the umbonal part of the anterior 

 are very much finer, and the posterior termination is elongated. The dorsal 

 shield is more oval, rounded anteriorly, and acuminated posteriorly.'" — 

 Sowerby. 



M. obtecta, Sowerby. (Sp.) 



Pholas obtecta, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. 1849. Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, Thes. 



Conch, ii. p. 496, t. 108, f. 80, 81. 

 Martesia obtecta, Gray, Ann. and Mag. 2d ser. viii. p. 384. H. and A. 

 Adams, Genera, ii. p. 331. Fischer, Journ. Conchyl. 2d ser. iii. p. 52. 

 Hah. — Philippines. 



Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Coll. G. W. Tryon, Jr. 



The two-lobed dorsal plate, (which from numerous specimens appears to be 

 a permanent character,) together with the greater size of the shell and some 

 difference in the sculpture, are the characters which distinguish this shell 

 from M. m u 1 1 i s t r i a t a ; it would not be surprising, Iiowever, if sjiecimenp 

 from other localities would prove that this shell is only a well-grown form of 

 multistria ta. 



[April; 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



M. V u m, Gray. 



Pliolas ovum, Gray, in Wood, Index Test. Supp. f. 4. Catlow, Conch. 

 Nomenc. p. 4. Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 7. 

 " ovata, (Gray,) Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, Thes. Conch, ii. p. 493, t. 

 107, f. 71, 72. Jay, Cat. 4th ed. p. 10. 

 Martesia ovum, Gray, Ann. and Mag. viii. p. 383. H. and A. Adams. 

 Genera, ii. p. 331. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 52. 

 Hah, — West Indies. Hanley. 

 Much larger than either of the other species of this section of the genus. 



***VaIves with a single suhcentral impressed rib ; the anterior dorsal reflection 

 erect, separated from the outer surface of the valve. — Gray, Ann. and Mag. 

 Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 384. 



M. aperta, Sowerby. (Sp.) 



Pholas aperta, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. 1S49. Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, Thes. 



Conch, ii. p. 491, t. 108, f. 99, 100. 

 Martesia aperta, Gray, Ann. and Mag. 2d ser. viii. p. 384. H. and A. 

 Adams, Genera, ii. p. 331. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 52. 

 Hah. — Straits of Sunda. 



The character of the striae is different in this species from M. c u n e i f o r m i s, 

 the undulations being finer and more angular. The shell is a young one, the 

 ventral plate being absent. 



M. Australis, Gray. 



Martesia Australis, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 384. 

 H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 331. Fischer, Journ. Couch. 2d ser. 

 iii. p. 52. 

 Hah. — N. W. Australia. 



This species has not yet been figured, but Dr. Gray states that the anterior 

 waved concentric edges are rather distant, — fewer than in M. striata. 



M. cuneiformis, Say. (Sp.) 



Pholas cuneiformis, Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sol. ii. p. 322. DeKay. 

 Moll. New York, p. 248. Kurtz, Cat. p. 3. Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, 

 Thes. Conch, ii. p. 495, 1. 104, f. 38, 39, 1. 108, f. 86, 87. Wheatley. 

 Cat. 

 Pholadidea cuneiformis, Stimpson's Check List. 



Martesia cuneiformis, Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 52. H. and 

 A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 331. Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d 

 ser. viii. p. 384. 

 Pholas Edwardsii, Gray, Syn. Brit. Mus. 1820. 



<< rudis, " " " " " 



Hah. — Southern United States. West Indies. 

 Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Coll. Isaac Lea, LL. D. Coll. G. W. Tryon, Jr. 



M. rivicola, Sowerby. (Sp.) 



Pholas rivicola, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. 1849. Sowerbv, Monog. Pholas. 



Thes. Conch, ii. p. 496, t. 108, f. 90, 91, Adams' and Reeve, Moll. 



Voy. Samarang. p. 84, t. 23, f. 5. 

 Martesia rivicola. Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 384. 



H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 331. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. 



iii. p. 52. 

 Hab. — Pantai River. 



This very distinct species is found burrowing in floating piles, on the Pantai 

 River, twelve miles from its mouth, where the water is perfectly fresh. 



1862.] 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



M. striata, Linnjetis. (Sp.) 



Pholas striata, Linnseus, Syst. Nat. p. 1111. Bean, Cat. Coq. Gnadalonpe, 

 p. 27. Bosc, Hist. Nat. des Coq. ii. p. 195. Brown, 111. Brit. Conch. 

 p. 115, t. 49, f. 5 — 8. Catlow, Concli. Nomenc. p. 4. Chemnitz, 

 Conch. Cab. t. 102, f. 867—871. Donovan, Brit. Shells, t. 116. 

 Forhes and Hanley, Brit. Conch, i. p. 120. Gualtieri, Test. t. 105, f. 

 F. Dillwyn, Desc. Cat. p. 37. Gmelin, Syst. Nat. p. 3215. Hanley, 

 Desc. Cat', p. 7. Jay, Cat. 4th ed. p. 10. Mawe, Conch, t. 3, f. 1. 

 Menke, Syn. p. 73. " Montagu, Brit. Test. pp. 26 and 559. Reeve, 

 Conch. Syst. t. 24, f. 2. Rumphius, Mns. t. 46, f. 8. Sowerby, 

 Genera Pholas, f. 2. Sowerby, Illust. Brit. Shells, t. 1, f. 13. 

 Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, Thes. Conch, ii. p. 494, t. 104, f. 40—42. 

 Spengler, Besch. Berl. Natnrg. iv. t. 5, f. 1 — 5. Thorpe, Brit. Mar. 

 Conch, p. 31. Wood, Gen. Conch, p. 83, t. 16, f. 1, 2, 3, 4, 8. Wood, 

 Index Test. Pholas, t. 2, f. 7. Turton, Conch. Diet. p. 147. Turton, 

 Conch, dith. Brit. p. 11. 

 Martesia striata. Leach, Gray Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 

 384. H. and A. Adams, Genera, iii. t. 90, f. 5, 5a. Chenu, Man. 

 Conch, ii. f. 48 — 50. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 52. Murch, 

 Cat.— p. 2. Woodward, Manual, t. 23, f. 21. 

 Pholas pusiUa, Linnjeus, Syst. Nat. p. 1111. Bosc, Hist. Nat. des Coq. ii. 

 p. 195. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 4. Dillwyn, Desc. Cat. i. p. 38. 

 D'Orbigny, Moll. Voy. Amer. Merid. p. 497. D'Orbigny, Moll. Sagra's 

 Cuba, p. 214. Donovan, Brit. Shells, iv. t. 117. Schumacher, Essai 

 d'un Nov. Syst. p. 96. Spengler, Skrivt. Nat. ii. pt. 1, p. 95. 

 Pholas clavata, Lamarck, Anim. sans Vert. v. p. 446. Lamarck, (ed. Desh.) 

 vi. p. 46. Anton, Verzeichn. Conch, p. 1. Bruguiere, Encyc. Meth. 

 t. 170, f. 1—3. Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 7. 

 Martesia clavata, Swainson, Malacol. f. 122, I. 

 Pholas conoides, Fleming, Brit. Anim. p. 457. 

 " lifjnorum, Spengler, Berl. Ges. Nat. iv. 

 " nana, Pultney, Dorset. Cat. p. 27. 

 " falcata, (Junior,) Wood, Gen. Conch, t. 16, f. 5 — 7. Wood, Index 



Test. Pholas. t. 2, f. 8 ? Hanley, Desc, Cat. p. 7. 

 " terediniformi.-i, (Junior,) Sowerby, Zool. Proc. 1849. Sowerby, Mon. 

 Pholas. Thes. Conch, ii. p. 490, t. 108, f. 97, 98. 

 Pholas semi CO St at a, (Junior,) Lea, Bost. Proc, Nov., 1844, t. 24, f. 1. 

 Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, Thes. Conch, ii. p. 495, t, 108, f. 84, 85. 

 Jay, Cat. 4th ed. p. 10. Stimpson's Check List. 

 Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. ; specimens from England, West Indies and Philip- 

 pines. Coll. J. C. Jay, M. D. Coll. Isaac Lea, LL.D. Coll. G. W. Tryon^. Jr. 

 Linnaeus described the West Indian shell as a distinct species, under the 

 name of Pholas pusilla, but Lamarck united the two, as P. clavata ; P. Tere- 

 diniforviis and P. falcata are about half-grown shells, and P. semicostata is a 

 very young individual. The Philippine Island specimens do not differ in any 

 respect from the West Indian. This species differs from M. cuneiformis 

 in the shape of the dorsal plate and in the anterior concentric strire being 

 angular instead of regularly curved. 



M. corticaria, Adams. (Sp.) 



Pholas corticaria. Gray, MSS. Sowerby, Monog. Pholas, Thes. Couch, ii. 

 p. 495, t. 108, f. 94—96. C. B. Adams, Contrib. to Conch, p. 75. 

 Pholas Beauiana, Recluz, Journ. Conch, iv. p. 49, t. 2. f. 1, 2, 3. (1S53.) 

 Zirphcca Beauiana, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 327. Beau. Cat. Coq. 



Guadaloupe, p. 27. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. iii. p. 50. 

 Pholas Carilxva, D'Orbigny, Moll. Sagra's Cuba, p. 216, t. 25. f. 20—22. 1S53. 

 " Eornbeckii, D'Oib. " " •' p. 217, t. 25, f. 23— 25, 1853. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 221 



Martesia Hornbeclcii, Chenu, Manuel, ii. 



Hah. — West Indies. 



The Pholas Beauiana, of Recluz, and P. Caribcea, D'Orb., are descriptions 

 of the full growth of this shell. P. Homheckii is a young shell, and is con- 

 siderably magnified in the plate of Sagra's Cuba, although no reference to that 

 fact is contained there. The shell is figured without the dorsal plate. 



The date 1846 is affixed to the descriptions by D'Orbigny, but he does not 

 mention where they were described previously. 



This shell was sent to England from Jamaica, by Prof. Adams, with the 

 MS3. name of P. rosea, subsequently altered to P. c o r t i c a r i a. Mr. Hanley 

 affirmed them to be a variety of P. striata, and, in deference to his opinion, 

 Adams suppressed the description. 



Sowerby quotes "Gray M3S." for this shell, but Dr. Gray relinquishes his 

 name in favor of Adams, although he considers the shell a synonym of M. 

 cuneiformis. I have not seen this species, but conceive from the figures 

 of Sowerby that it is a good one. 



I find the following differences in the dorsal plates of the three allied West 

 Indian species : — 



In striata, somewhat hexagonal, the anterior and posterior margins 

 emarginate, the anterior lateral margins slightly concave, and the posterior 

 lateral margins somewhat convex. 



In cuneiformis, diamond-shaped, the anterior portion broader and more 

 obtuse. 



In corticaria, broadly halberd-shaped, truncate and three-sided at the 

 posterior end, with the central margin emarginate. 



Addenda. 



Pholas cord at a, Schroter, Conch, iii. p. 544, t. 9, f. 22 — 24. Bosc, Hist. 

 Nat. des Coq. ii. p. 196. Bruguiere, Encyc. Meth. t. 169, f. 8—10. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 3. Gmelin, Svst. Nat. p. 3216. Wood, 

 Gen. Conch, p. 85. Wood, Index Test. f. 9. 



Hab. ? Two specimens found in a mass of Madrepore. 



I am not able to place this shell in any of the foregoing genera. It appears 

 to be immature, and it is probable that the anterior ventral hiatus is closed in 

 the adult by a callous plate, as in Martesia, etc. ; but it differs from that genus 

 in the single dorsal plate being placed anterior to, instead of over, the um- 

 bones. 



Gray, Adams and Sowerby do not mention the species. Should this species 

 be rediscovered, and found to exhibit the above distinctive characters, as 

 indicated by Schroter's plate, I would suggest for it the generic name Schro- 

 TEKiA, in honor of its describer. 



Descriptions of certain Species of DIURNAL LEPIDOPIERA, found within ihe 

 limits of the United States and of British America. No. 3. 



BY WM. H. EDWARDS. 



1. Argynnis Nokomis, nov. sp. 7. Lycaena Pembina, nov. sp. 



2. Grapta Faunus, nov. sp. 8. " Shasta, nov. sp. 



3. Thecia Californica, nov. sp. 9. " Scudderii, Edw. female. 



4. " viridis, nov. sp. 10. Parnassius Smintheus, Doubleday 



5. " affiais, nov. sp. 11. Limenitis Eulalia, Doubleday. 



6. Lycsena Behrii, nov. sp. 



Argvxnis Xokomis, nov sp. 



Male. Expands 3^- iaches. 



Upper side uniform bright falvous, a little dusky next base ; hiad margin 

 edged with a fine black line which is preceded by a heavy parallel line, the 

 1862.] 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



nervures between being black ; both wings marked and spotted with black as 

 in Cybele and allied species ; the marginal spots are lanceolate on primaries ; 

 on secondaries the mark in the cell takes the form of an S. Under 

 side : base and inner margin of primaries bright red fulvous ; towards the 

 apex buff; sis silver triangles within the hind margin next apex, each sur- 

 mounted with black, and three silver spots on the costa ; the anterior one mi- 

 nute. 



Secondaries cinnamon brown, somewhat mottled with buff, and having a 

 green tinge next abdominal margin ; between the two outer rows of silver 

 spots a broad, immaculate, bright buff belt; hind margin yellowish brown; 

 the silver spots are twenty-one in number, all but those next the base heavily 

 bordered above with black, viz : seven marginal spots, which are edged below 

 also with black ; a second row of eight spots, the one next the abdominal margin 

 small and about the size of the fifth ; a third row of three large spots, a black 

 point between the first and second from costa ; preceding these is a circular spot, 

 and nearer the abdominal margin an oval, both ringed with black: above, near 

 the base, a light spot or bar of silver divided by the sub-costal nervure ; costa 

 at base broadly, and abdominal margin very lightly silvered: body above same 

 dusky fulvous as the base of the wings ; below light red brown ; antennae long, 

 club massive, dark brown, tipped with fulvous. 



Rocky Mountains, and Mountains of California. 



This is much the largest of the Pacific species, equalling the largest speci- 

 mens of Gybele. In color it most resembles Aphrodite. The female I have not 

 seen. 



Grapta Fauxus, nov sp. 



Expands two inches. 



Primaries deeply emarginate on both hind and inner margins ; a prominent 

 rounded tail on the middle of secondaries and a smaller one between tais and 

 the anal angle. 



Male. Upper side deep orange fulvous, paler next apex of primaries : base 

 of both wings and abdominal margin of secondaries a little dusky, the latter 

 clothed with long hairs ; primaries have a broad black hind margin, dilated at 

 the apex, bordered within by a series of obsolete tawny lunules ; on the inner 

 margin a large black spot joins the marginal band, there enclosing a tawny 

 spot ; on tlie costal margin near apex, a broad abbreviated bar, black without, 

 ferruginous within, runs obliciuely back almost to the marginal band ; from the 

 middle of the costa a broad black bar extends to the median nervure, covering 

 the arc : within the cell two round black spots in a transverse line and a third 

 a little back of the same line near inner margin, divided unequally by the 

 third median nervule ; in the median interspaces, two rounded black spots 

 placed nearly at right angles to the first three ; costal edge of both wings and 

 the incision of inner margin of primaries sprinkled with black and tawny ; the 

 hind margin of secondaries is black slightly tinted with fulvous, clouded with- 

 in, and passes gradually into the basal color, occupying nearly half the wing ; 

 costal margin broad and brownish black ; on this is an elongate black spot, be- 

 low which, nearer the cell, is a second, and in the middle of the wing a third, 

 divided by the nervure ; fringe white in the emarginations. 



Under side. Both wings dark brown next base, with an irregular common 

 blackish band across the middle, darkest on its outer edge and within the ab- 

 dominal margin, where its outline is obliquely serrated ; beyond this band, the 

 color is paler brown mottled with grey white, which is clearest on costa of pri- 

 maries ; the whole surface clouded with vinous, and more or less crossed by 

 fine abbreviated streaks of dark brown ; apex of primaries yellow brown, with 

 three small, lanceolate, ferruginous spots, the lower one enclosing a blue or 

 green point ; the hind margin of both wings, below these, is bordered by a se- 

 ries of confluent blue black, sometimes olive green spots, following the outline 

 of the wing ; a little anterior to this, another series of rounded spots of same 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 223 



color, those on secondaries largest and sometimes having black centres, on pri- 

 maries minute, except the two at the ends of the row ; in the disc of secondaries, 

 a white G, varying in form, but usually thick and angular with each end sharp 

 and barbed ; body above black, covered with greenish hairs ; below, brown 

 grey; aatennffi dark brown above, whitish below; club black with a yellow tip. 



Female. Underside more greyish, the marginal spots less distinct, and the 

 silver mark more open, sometimes like the L of Progne, sometimes like the mark 

 of Comma. 



This species is found abundantly in certain localities on the Catskill Moun- 

 tains, New York. It is also found at 'Fort Simpson, at Albany River, and 

 Lake Winnipeg. It resembles C. album, of Europe, and has been supposed 

 to be identical with that species. It differs, however, in many respects. I 

 am informed by Mr. H. T. Stainton, that it is the species which follows Vanessa 



Progne as " Vanessa ? " in the list of Lepidoptera of the British Museum, 



Part I., 1844, and that it is regarded as " a distinct unnamed species." 



Thecla. Califorxica, nov. sp. 



Expands 1-3 inch. Size and form of Falacer. 



Male. Upper side light brown ; primaries with a smooth oval spot oa 

 disc ; near the inner angle two faint fulvous submarginal spots, and 

 at anal angle of secondaries three fulvous lunules, the middle one deep- 

 est colored, and sometimes the two next anal angle resting on black spots; tail 

 long, black tipped with white; a white line from its base to anal angle ; the 

 fringe against this line is black, but elsewhere whitish without, brown next the 

 margin ; anal angle black. 



Under side grey with a reddish brown tint ; both wings have a straight dis- 

 cal bar edged with white ; primaries have, beyond the cell, a transverse band of 

 seven black spots, the one on costa, minute and preceding the others, the 

 seventh duplex ; each edged without by white ; a marginal row of pale fulvous 

 lunules almost obsolete towards apex, each surmounted with black, which is 

 edged above with white. Secondaries have a transverse band of seven large 

 black spots and a streak turning upward at the abdominal margin ; the fifth 

 of these spots from costa precedes the line, and the seventh is largest and cor- 

 date ; all edged without by white ; a marginal row of orange lunules, small or 

 obsolete towards the outer angle, but large and deep colored next anal angle, 

 extending up the abdominal margin and at the angle enclosing a pale blue 

 spot which is sprinkled with black atoms ; the lunule beyond this rests upon 

 a small black triangle, and all the lunules are surmounted with black, which 

 is edged above with white ; the whole hind margin of both wings is edged with 

 a white line. 



Female. The inner angle of primaries and the hind margin of secondaries 

 next anal angle suffused with pale fulvous; under side soiled white. 



California, from Dr. H. Behr. 

 Thecla. viridis, nov. sp. 



Expands 1*2 inch. 



Upper side of both sexes blackish ; the male has a smooth oval spot on disc 

 of primaries ; hind margin of secondaries a little crenated towards anal angle; 

 fringe whitish, at anal angle brown. 



Under side uniform deep green, except on inner margin of primaries, where 

 it is brownish grey ; costal edge of primaries fulvous ; across the green shade 

 runs a common sinuous band of elongated, clear-white spots ; fringe of second- 

 aries brown at the extremities of the nervures ; antennae white ; club dark 

 brown. 



California, from Dr. H. Behr. 

 Thecla affinis, nov. sp. 



Expands 1-1 inch. 



Both sexes glossy red brown, brightest in female; the male has a smooth 

 1862.] 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



oval spot on disc of primaries ; costa of primaries and base of both wings black- 

 ish brown ; whole hind margin edged with same color; fringe white. 



Under side uniform apple green, except on inner margin of primaries, where 

 it is pale, brownish grey ; both wings immaculate ; costal edge of primaries 

 grey ; hind margin of secondaries without crenations. 



Utah, from Mr. C. Drexler. 



Both viridis and affiiiis are allied to T. Rubi and to T. Dumetorum of Boisdu- 

 val. The latter I have not seen, but it is briefly described as being " entirely like 

 Ruhi^ and to be considered a local variety of that species," a description which 

 does not apply to either of the above named species. Affinis approaches most 

 nearly to Rubi in color below, but the upper side is much brighter, and the 

 white spots of under side are wanting. Viridis has similar spots to Rubi^ but 

 the color of both sides is different, as is that of the antenna, edge of costa and 

 fringe. 



Ltc^na Behrii, nov. sp. 



Expands 1-2 inch. 



Male. Upper side glossy lilac blue, silvery on costa of primaries ; hind mar- 

 gin of both wings fuscous ; fringe long and white. 



Under side uniform dark brownish grey sprinkled with blue scales near base 

 of both wings ; edge of hind margin dark brown, along which within runs a 

 fine white line ; primaries have a black discal bar edged with white, and mid- 

 way towards the mi<Tgin, a transverse, sinuous row of six black spots, the 

 fourth and fifth from costa reniform, the others smaller and round, all of them 

 broadly encircled with white. Secondaries have a small white spot on costa, 

 a discal bar and a transverse double curved row of eight small round black 

 spots, each encircled with white ; the three spots next abdominal margin mi- 

 nute ; antennte black with fine white rings ; club black. 



Female. Like the male, except that the color above is fuscous, bluish near 

 base. 



California, from Dr. H. Behr. 



This species is allied to Lygdamas, Doubleday. 



Lyc^ena Pembina, nov. sp. 



Expands 1-2 inch. 



Male. Upper side violet blue ; hind margin of primaries, and entire margin 

 of secondaries fuscous ; a discal spot on primaries from the transparency of 

 the wing; fringe white without, next the margin blackish.' 



Under side pale brownish grey ; base of both wings and abdominal margin 

 of secondaries sprinkled with black scales ; primaries have a large reniform 

 black discal spot and a transverse row of six black spots bent near costa into a 

 curve which embraces and terminates at the discal spot, the first spot being as 

 near the discal as to the second ; the first and sixth are smallest and round, 

 the sixth is also sometimes duplex ; the second and third nearly round, fourth 

 and fifth oval and largest ; half-way between this row and the margin is 

 another row of obsolete dark points. Secondaries have two small round black 

 spots on costa, each in a white ring, a black point in the disc near base, a white 

 discal spot and a transverse row, nearly parallel to the margin, of faint white 

 spots, one or two of which have a dark centre ; between this row and the mar- 

 gin au obsolete series of dark points as on primaries; this row terminates at 

 the anal angle in a large dusky spot. 



Female. Brown, slightly bluish at base of both wings ; the discal spot on 

 primaries conspicuous. 



Lake Winnipeg, from R. W. Kennicott. 



This species is allied to Pheres, Boisduval. 



Lyc^na Shasta, nov. sp. 

 Expands one inch. 

 Male. Upper side violet blue with a pink tinge ; hind margin broadly fus- 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



cous ; a large black discal spot on each wing : two or three obsolete spots near 

 anal angle, the second from the angle with a faint yellow lanule; fringe brown- 

 ish white. 



Under side greyish white, bluish next base; primaries have a fuscous spot 

 near base, a discal bar and a transverse sinuous row of elongated fuscous spots, 

 each edged with whitish ; along the margin obsolete spots surmounted by faint 

 lunules. 



Secondaries have three fuscous points near base ; a discal bar and a trans- 

 verse sinuous row of fuscous spots; whole hind margin bordered by small me- 

 tallic blue spots, each surmounted by a blackish lunule. 



Female. Upper side clear brown ; the obsolete spots next anal angle sur- 

 mounted by a narrow crenated yellow band ; under side as in male, but the 

 five spots next anal angle are surmounted by ochrey yellow lunules edged 

 above with black ; fringe long and fuscous at the extremities of the nervures. 



California, from Dr. H. Behr. 



Lyc.exa Sccdderii, Edw. 



Female. The more common form differs somewhat from that heretofore de- 

 scribed, which appears to have been a variety, in that the base of both wings 

 is violet blue, and the black marginal spots of secondaries distinct, the two or 

 three next anal angle surmounted with fulvous ; under side as in the male. 



This species is found abundantly near London, Canada West, as I am in- 

 formed by Mr. W. Saunders. I have also received it from Fort Simpson. 



Parxassids Smixtheus, Doubleday : figured in Genera of Diurnal Lepidop- 

 tera, but not described. 



Expands 2J inches. Size and form of Clarius. 



Male. Both wings pure white, semi-transparent at apex of primaries : hind 

 margin of primaries sprinkled with black scales which take the form of in- 

 distinct lunules ; a second similar series anterior to these; a black bar on the 

 arc, and, within the cell, a transverse, elongated black spot that terminates a 

 little short of the median nervure ; on the costa beyond the cell, a crimson spot 

 in a black ring, and below this a black spot wiih crimson centre ; a small 

 black spot within the inner margin ; base of wing and edge of costa thickly 

 sprinkled with black scales; fringe white, cut with black at the ends of the 

 nervures. 



Secondaries black at the base and along the abdominal margin, from which 

 black scales extend to the cell and around the arc : a submarginal row of ob- 

 solete black spots ; a small crimson spot on costal margin and a larger and 

 brighter one in the disc, both in black rings. 



Under side with all the markings of the upper, but less vivid in color; sec- 

 ondaries have an additional small crimson spot within the abdominal margin 

 near the anal angle, and afthe base four crimson spots in a curved band, 

 each more or less edged with black : the spot in the disc with white 

 centre. 



Female. A little larger than the male; the whole hind margin of primaries 

 semi-transparent, enclosing a transverse row of white lunules, but without 

 other spots ; the red spots larger and paler, the one on disc of secondaries with 

 white centre; on the under side of secondaries the costal spot also has a 

 white centre, and near the anal angle are two red spots. 



California. 

 LiMEXiTis EULCLiA, Doublcday : figured in Genei-a of Diurnal Lepidoptera, 

 but not described. 



Expands 2| inches. 



Male. Upper side of both wings olive brown, with a blackish tinge upon 

 the outer limb ; hind margin bordered by a broad crenated band of lighter color, 

 through which runs a black line ; a large golden yellow apical spot fills the 

 space between the marginal band and narrow costal border of primaries ; across 



1862.] 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the middle of the wings a common white band, commencing on the costa of 

 primaries, with a large spot cut into three by the nervures, followed by a sec- 

 ond, oval, separated from the first by a wide space, and out of the line in the di- 

 rection of the inner angle ; after this the band is uninterrupted except by the 

 nervures, and diminishes to a point a littlej within the abdominal margin, 

 on the arc of primaries a narrow, transverse, ferruginous band, and another 

 in the cell, each edged on either side by a black wavy line : a similar line 

 mid-way between these bands: the cell and costa next base have a dull 

 green tinge; at anal angle a black spot within a fulvous lunule ; fringe brown, 

 white in the emarginations. 



Under side pale brown, with a bronze lustre on secondaries ; primaries have 

 a broad hind margin, crenatednext the inner angle, with a faint, pale blue line 

 running through it and edged anteriorly by a narrow, pale blue band ; the yel- 

 low spot as above, but paler; below this and between the marginal and white 

 bands, smoky black ; the white band as above but a little enlarged ; the bars 

 in the cell larger and fulvous : inner margin next base greyish ; hind margin 

 of secondaries narrower than that of primaries, wholly crenated, with a pale 

 blue line running through it and bordered anteriorly by a broad, palo blue band; 

 the white band is edged without, and near its point suffused with light pur- 

 ple ; inside the band to the base, are alternate, irregular, transverse bands of 

 purple and lustrous yellow brown ; abdominal margin pale blue ; the nervures 

 much bordered by purple or blue scales ; body above olive brown; beneath, 

 bluish white ; antennae and club dark brown. 



Female scarcely differs from the male. 



California, from Dr. H. Behr. 



Synopsis of the North American Forms of the COirMBID^; and 

 PODICIPID.ffi. 



BY ELLIOTT COUES.* 



Family COLYMBIDiE. 



Char. Feathers of forehead reaching to the nostrils. Nostrils narrow and 

 linear ; their upper edge with a dependent lobe. Lores densely feathered. 

 Tertials short and stiff. Tail fully developed. Tarsus and toes covered with 

 small, regular, polygonal, reticulated plates. Tibije feathered on the joint. 

 Toes fnlly webbed. Claws strong, narrow, oblong, very convex superiorly. 

 Posterior edge of tarsus smooth, formed by a single row of very convex over- 

 lapping scales. Lobe of hind toe moderate. Size large ; general form stout 

 and strong ; body robust ; neck short and thick, without crests or ruflFs ; the 

 back spotted. 



Genus Coltmbcs Linnaeus. 

 Colymhus, Linn. 1735, et auct. nee 111. ISll ; nee Pallas, ISll ; necBriss. 1764. 

 ?Cepphus, Moehring, 1752, secundum G. R. Gray. 

 Cepphus, Pallas, 1^11, partim. 

 Mergus, Brisson, 1764, fide G. R. Gray ; nee auct. 



* The great acression of new material in the Museum of the Smithsonian Insti'ution 

 has furnished the means of making sunie additions and corrections to the last acc( unt of 

 the Loons and Grebes of North America — that by Mr. Lawrence in the General Report. 

 The writer having lately been occupied, in connection wiih Dr. Geo. Suckley, U. S. A.. 

 in the preparation of a Government Report, took the opportunity to institute a thorough 

 revision of the two famihes. The results of that investigation w ill be found in full in 

 the Report alluded to; but as it may be some time before its publication, it has been 

 thought advisable to issue in advance this brief synopsis. Particular attention has been 

 paid to the characters of the families and subfamilies, and to the arrangement of the 

 species under their appropriate genera. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



Urinator, Cuvier, 1799-1800, fide G. R. Grar. 

 Eudytes, Illiger, 1811 ; (Eudites, Kaup, 1829.) 



1. CoLYMBPS TORQUATTS Briinnich. 



C. torquatus. Briinn. 1764; C. glacialis, Linn. 1766, auctor. pleriq ; ad. — 

 C. immer,' Brm-a. 1764; Linn. 1766; Gmel. 1788; Lath. 1790; juv.— 

 Ceppkus torquatus, Pall. ISll, ad. ; C. imber, Pall. 1811, juv. ; Eudytes 

 glacialis, lUiger, 1811 ; Eudites glac. Kaup. 1829. 



2. CoLYsiBrs Adajisii G. R. Gray. 



Colymbus Adamsii, Gray, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond. 1859, 167. 



Sp. Ck. Form and general appearance that of C. torquatus, but larger, with 

 the bill disproportionately larger, and differently shaped. 



Bill very large and strong, about equal in length to the head, longer than 

 the tarsus, greatly compressed, the tip very acute, not decurved. Culmen 

 very slightly, scarcely appreciably, convex. Commissure perfectly straight. 

 Gonys straight, or very nearly so, to the angle, which is prominent, well 

 defined; and straight, or even a little concave, to the tip. Feathers of fore- 

 head extending beyond the middle of the nostrils. Groove along the sym- 

 physis of the lower jaw extending but little beyond the angle. 



Adult. — Bill light yellowish, growing dusky at the base. Head and neck 

 all round deep steel blue, with purplish and violet reflections, and glossed on 

 the back of the neck with deep green. Gular patch of white streaks very 

 small, less than in torquatus, but the individual streaks larger, as are also 

 those on the side of the neck. Upper parts generally as in torquatus, but the 

 spots considerably larger, and on the scapulars andtertials rectangular, instead 

 of nearly square, being much longer thau broad. Otherwise like torquatus. 



Plumage of the young unknown. 



Bill above 3-70 ; along gape 5-25 ; height of nostril anteriorly 1-10 ; width, 

 •50; tarsus 3-50; outer toe 4-65 inches. "Irides light reddish-brown, legs 

 and feet olivaceous." 



Habitat. Russian America (Gray). Arctic America (Ross, Kennicott). 



Table of Distinctive Characters. 



C. torquatus. Bill 2-75 inches, not longer than the tarsus ; moderately 

 compressed ; black ; the tip only sometimes yellowish. Culmen very convex. 

 Commissure decurved. Gonys regularly convex throughout its whole length. 

 the angle scarcely appreciable ; the groove along symphysis extending nearly 

 to tip. Feathers of the forehead falling short of the middle of the nostrils. 

 Head and neck mostly deep glossy green. White spots of back moderate, 

 scarcely longer than broad. 



C. Adamsii. Bill 3-75 ; longer than the tarsus ; exceedingly compressed ; 

 light yellow, except at base. Culmen very slightly convex. Commissure 

 straight. Gonys straight, or nearly so, to the angle, straight, or even a little 

 concave to the tip, the angle prominent, well defined. Groove along sym- 

 physis very short. Feathers of forehead extending beyond the middle of the 

 nostrils. Head and neck mostly deep steel blue. White spots of back large, 

 much longer than broad. 



There cannot be, I think, the slightest doubt of the specific distinction of 

 the present species and the C. torquatus. The difference in the size, shape, 

 and color of the bill alone would separate the two, were there no other char- 

 acters involved. It is every way a much larger bird. The species is, so far 

 as we are aware, now for the first time presented in an American work. The 

 original description, by Gray (as above), is very brief, but the distinctive 

 characters of the species are so concisely stated that we have no difficulty in 

 identifying the large series before us with the description. The Loon men- 

 tioned by Audubon, as having "the point of the bill recurved, and of a fine 

 yellow tint," was very possibly an individual of this species. The type of 



1862.] 




228 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



the species is from Russian America. The large series which the Smithsonian 

 possesses, were collected in the vicinity of Great Slave Lake and McKenzie's 

 River, by R. Kennicott and B. R. Ross, Esqrs. It has not been obtained from 

 the Atlantic coast. 



3. COLYMB0S AECTICUS Linnffius. 



C. ai-cticus, Linn. 1735, et auct. Cepphus arct. Pall. 1811. Eud^tes arct. 

 Illig. 1811. 



4. CoLYMBus PACIFIC0S Lawrence. 



C. pacijicus, Lawr. Gen. Rep. Birds, 1858, 889. 



Sp. Ch. Generally similar to C. arcticus, but every way smaller ; the wing 

 from an inch to two inches sliorter, the legs and feet proportionately shorter, 

 and the bill smaller, shorter, weaker, usually with a less decurved culmen, 

 and more acute tip. Colors precisely as in 0. arcticus. "Length 25 inches; 

 wing 11| ; bill 2-12 ; tarsus 2-75." 



Habitat. Northern North America. Pacific coast. 



The types of Mr. Lawrence's C. pacijicus are young birds, and their relation- 

 ship can only be determined by their size and form. A comparison of these 

 types with an extensive series of skins of the adult bird, from the interior 

 of Northern North America, has shown them to be beyond a doubt identical. 

 The entire series differs from a fine adult European bird furnished for examina- 

 tion by the Copenhagen Museum, in those points which are given in the diag- 

 nosis. The difference is very marked indeed, and while all the birds in the 

 North American series agree perfectly with each other, there is, at the same 

 time, not the slightest graduation between them and the Europeau'bii-d. This 

 would seem to indicate that the North American bird is distinct from the 

 European ; or, in other words, that " Coly/nbus pacijicus Lawr." is the " Colym- 

 bus arcticus ex America.^' Upon this supposition it would be necessary to 

 exclude the C. arcticus from our avi-fauna. There is in the collection, how- 

 ever, a specimen (from Puget Sound) which is fully as large as the European 

 bird, with which it agrees in the minutest particulars, and is much larger and 

 stouter every way than the rest of the series. . I have, therefore, at present 

 no other alternative than to admit the C. pacijicus as distinct from the arcti- 

 cus, in view of the differences constantly observable, and at the same time to 

 retain the latter as an inhabitant of North America. I think it probable, 

 however, that if the true arcticus is really found in North America, it is rather 

 as an infrequent visiter than as a permanent resident. I do not regard the 

 question as yet definitely settled, especially as the single European skin 

 examined may have been an unusually large specimen. Further investigation 

 will be necessary to definitely settle the point. 



Should the pacijicus prove to be really distinct from the arcticus, it would 

 be another example of a peculiar law wliich prevails extensively throughout 

 the ColymbidfB and Podicipidw. This is, that nearly all the species have, so 

 to speak, their analogues, agreeing in colors and general appearance, but dif- 

 fering in size, and in the size, shape, and stoutness of the bill. Instances are 

 seen in the cases of Co/yinbus Adamsii nud torquatus; Podiceps grisiegena and 

 Holbolli; P. cormttus and farcficus; Aichmophorus occidentalis and Clarkii; Podi- 

 lymbus podiceps and brcvirostris, etc. This law seems capable of very extensive 

 application. 



5. COLYMBUS SEPTENTRIONALIS LiunSeUS. 



Colymbus septeiitrionaHs, Linn. 176G, et auct. C. lumme, Brunn. 1764, ad. 

 C. stcllatus, Briiun. 1764 ; Gmel. 1788 ; Lath. 17!.>0 ; juv. C. striatus, 

 Gmel. 1788 ; Lath. 1790 ; juv. C. borealis, Briinn. 1764 ; Gmel. 1788 ; 

 Lath. 1790. Cepphus septcnirionalis, Pall. ISll. Cepphus steUatus, 

 Pall. 1811. 



[-^pril, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



Family PODICIPID^. 



Char. Feathers of forehead not reaching to the nostrils. Nostrils linea^, 

 oblong, sometimes quite broadly oval, without dependent lobe. Lores naked. 

 Tertials long, reaching to the tip of the primaries in the closed wings. Tail 

 rudimentary. Tarsus and toes covered with regular, long, narrow, transverse 

 scutell?e. Toes lobed, connected at base by a membrane. Tibise feathered to 

 the joint. Claws weak, broad, short, flat. Posterior edge of tarsus serrated, 

 formed by a double row of small, pointed scales. Lobe of hind toe large. Size 

 moderate, or very small ; general form rather slender ; body depressed ; neck 

 long ; crests or ruffs usually present ; the back never spotted. 



The preceding diagnosis expresses very briefly the more prominent charac- 

 ters of a group of birds composing the subfamily PodicipincE of modern authors. 

 It corresponds with the Coli)mbi pedibus palmatis and pedibus lobatis of Gmelin, 

 nearly with the Cepphi and Cohjmbi of Pallas, and with the genera Colymbus 

 and Podiceps of Latham. Although related to the Colymbida in most points 

 of structure and habits, they nevertheless differ in so many and so essential 

 characters, that a single family cannot, without great latitude of definition, 

 contain the two groups. We have, therefore, restricted the Colymbida to the 

 Colymbince of authors, and raised the Podicipincs to the rank of a distinct 

 family. 



Two subfamilies are represented in North America. 



Subfamily PODICIPIN^. 

 Char. Bill moderately stout, or very slender. Commissure not abruptly 

 decurved a?t the end. Nostrils linear. Bare loral space narrow and linear. 

 Feathers of the head with their shafts normal. Tarsus at least three-fourths 

 the middle toe ; generally but little, if any, shorter. Toes connected at base 

 for a moderate distance, the lobe of the hind toe broad. Usually (always ?) 

 with more or less conspicuous crests and ruffs. 



Genus L .^chmophorus Coues. N. G. 



Gen. Char. Bill very long, exceeding the head, straight or very slightly 

 recurved, slender, attenuated towards the tip, which is very acute. Culmen 

 straight or slightly concave. Commissure about straight. Gonys convex 

 throughout its whole length, the angle scarcely appreciable. Nasal groove 

 long, shallow, and narrow. Bare loral space very narrow. Wings rather 

 long, pointed, the outer primaries much attenuated. Legs very long. Tarsus 

 as long as the middle toe and claw, exceeding the bill, excessively com- 

 pressed. Outer lateral toe much longer than the middle. Lobes united at 

 base for a very short distance. Size large ; body slender ; neck very long. 

 Head with moderate crests, but without decided ruffs ? 



Type. Podiceps occidentalis, Lawr. 



1. ^CHMOPHORUS OCCIDENTALIS (Lawr.) 



Podiceps occidentalis, Lawr. 1858. 



Char. Length about''29 inches ; wing 8*25 ; bill or tarsus 3*00. Bill equal 

 to tarsus, straight, dark colored, except terminally and along the cutting 

 edges. Gonys straight from base to angle, and nearly so from angle to tip. 

 Feathers between eye and nostril grayish ash. 



Habitat. Pacific coast of North America. 



2. ^CHMOPHOEUS Clakkii (Lawr). 



Podiceps Clarkii, Lawr. 1858. 



Char. Much smaller than A. occidentalis. Length 22 inches ; wing 7 ; 

 bill 2-25 ; tarsus 2-75 ; bill rather shorter than tarsus, exceedingly acute, 

 slightly recurved ; the gonys regularly much curved from base to tip, the 

 angle scarcely apparent. Feathers between eye and nostril white. 



Habitat. Pacific coast of North America. 



1862.] 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Genus II. Podiceps Latham. 



Cohjmhis, Briss. 1760, nee. Linn, et auct. 111. 1811 ; Pall. 1811. 



Podiceps, Lath. 1790; (typus Col. cristatus, Linn.) nee Kaup. 1829. 



Pedetaitkya, Kaup. 1829 ; typus Col. griseigena, Budd. 1783.) 



Lopkartlii/ia, Kaup. 1829; (typus Col. cn'siatits, Linn. Podiceps, Lath. 1790.) 



Dijies, Kaup. 1829; (typus Col. corntitus, GmeL) 



Proctopus, Kaup. 1829; (typus Col. auritus.) 



Otodytcs, Reichenbach, 1853; (typus idem.) 

 Gen. Char. Bill moderately stout ; usually more or less compressed; as 

 long as, or rather shorter than, the head ; not equalling the tarsus. Culmen 

 convex, occasionally nearly or quite straight. Commissure about straight. 

 Tarsus shorter than the middle toe and claw. Outer lateral but little, if any, 

 longer than the middle toe. Body depressed, moderately full ; head always 

 with more or less eonspicuous crests and ruffs. 



Although the characters of the genus are drawn so as to exclude both the 

 foregoing and succeeding genus, the North American species comprised in it, 

 are sufficiently dissimilar in form to have caused the instituting of several 

 subgenera. These may be characterized and arranged as follows : — 



A. Tarsus'equal to the middle toe without the claw. 



I. Bill equal to the head, four-fifths the tarsus. Bill 



much compressed, lateral outlines a little con- 

 cave. Crests and ruffs very long and conspicu- 

 ous Podiceps, Lath. 



II. Bill much shorter than the head, but little more 



than half the tarsus. 



1. Bill compressed, higher than broad at the nos- 

 trils ; crests and ruffs, especially the latter, very 



long and full Dytes, Kaup. 



2. Bill depressed, broader than high at the nostrils ; 



crests and ruffs more moderate Proctopus, Kaup. 



B. Tarsus about four-fifths the middle toe and claw. 



III. Bill variable in length, always quite stout ; outer 

 lateral but little longer than the middle toe; 



crests and ruffs rather short Pedetaithya, Kaup. 



1. Podiceps cristatds Latham. 



Cohjmhus cristatus, Linn. 1766 ; Pall. 1811 ; IlL 1811. C. urinator, Linn. 

 1766, juv. Podiceps crist. Lath. 1790, et auct. 

 Habitat. Europa ; Amer. Sept. 



2. Podiceps Coopeki Lawrence. 



Sp. Char. Bill large and strong, as long as the head, very stout at the 

 base, the tip very acute and considerably decurved. Upper mandible with 

 the culmen very slightly concave on the basal half, the terminal portion re- 

 gularly convex. Commissure irregularly sinuate to the nostrils, then regu- 

 larly decurved, the radius of curvature decreasing towards the tip. Lower 

 mandible without a groove along the symphysis of the rami beyond the 

 angle, the tip decurved and very acute. Lower outline concave, both ante- 

 rior and posterior to the angle, which is prominent and marked ; the con- 

 cavity is very decided in the former. First and second primaries longest, 

 third but little shorter. Tarsi and toes as in P. cristatus. 



Young. Upper mandible dusky, except the tip and extreme base, which 

 are yellowish, as is also the lower mandible, except a central dusky greenish 

 space. No white space between eye and nostril. Slight indications of a 

 crest, but none at all of a ruff. Crown, and median dorsal line of neck, deep 

 blackish brown, darkest on the former. Upper parts brownish black, darkest 

 on the scapulars and lower part of the back, all the feathers, especially an- 



[ April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



teriorly, edged with grayish. Primaries rather light chocolate brown, their 

 shafts and tips black. Secondaries white, their inner vanes brown towards 

 their extreme tips. Wing coverts wholly chocolate brown. 



Dimensions. Bill above 2-40, along gape 3*10, height at nostril -oS, from 

 angle of gonys to tip 1 inch ; wing 8"80 ; tarsus 2'40 ; middle toe, 3'10. 



Habitat. Shoalwater Bay, W. T. 



A species admitted with some doubt, but probably distinct from the pre- 

 ceding. It must be obtained in full plumage before the question of its rela- 

 tionship can be definitely settled. We do not consider it by any means cer- 

 tain that it will possess the conspicuous ruflFs of P. cristatus. In that event, it 

 would more probably fall in some other subgenus. 



3. PoDicEPS (Dytes) corxutus (Gmelin.) 



Colijmbus cornutus, Gmel., 1788; Pall., 1811; ad. C. ohscums, Gmel., 

 1788, et C. caspicus, Gmel., 1788 ; juv. C. nigricans, Scopoli, fide 

 Lawr. Podiceps cornutus, Lath., 1790, et auct. ? P. arcticus, Boie. 

 Habitat. Europ. Amer. Sept. 



4. Podiceps (Pkoctopcs) Califorsticcs Heermann. 



Podiceps aiiritus ex America ; e. g. Aud. B. Am., 1844, vii. 322. Lawr. 

 Gen. Rep. 1858, synon. excl. Nee Cohjmhus aur. Linn. ; nee script. 

 Europ. P. Californicus, Heermann, 1854; Lawr., 1858. 



Char. Generally similar to P. auritiis of Europe ; all the primaries choco- 

 late brown throughout their whole extent, with a more or less notable amount 

 of dull reddish externally. Secondaries white, the two outer ones dusky 

 along their centres for their whole length, and the bases and shafts of all of 

 the same color. 



Habitat. Western and Northern North America ; California ; Great Slave 

 Lake. 



In 1854, a Podiceps californicus was characterized, as above, based upon an 

 immature or winter specimen. Examination of the type, and quite a series 

 of additional specimens, has shown that it is merely the American form of P. 

 auritus. The name would, therefore, become a synonym were it not for the 

 fact that, in all probability, the American and European birds are specifically 

 distinct. The differences are those given in the diagnosis. In the American 

 Eared Grebe, all the primaries are throughout their whole extent dark choco- 

 late brown, with a more or less notable amount of dull reddish in the adult. 

 The two first secondaries are of the color of its primaries, and bordered with 

 white ; and the basal portions and shafts of all, for the gi-eater part of their 

 length, are of the same chocolate brown. In all the specimens of the European 

 type examined, the characters of the wing are very different. The four inner 

 primaries are wholly pure white ; the next is white with a sprinkling of 

 brown on the outer web ; the next is white, its outer vane brown ; and all 

 the others have more or less white at their bases and on the inner webs. All 

 the secondaries, except the three innermost are entirely pure white, and their 

 shafts are white to the very base. The three innermost have a dusky spot 

 near the end of the outer web. These differences, so far as we can discover, 

 are constant ; and if so, quite sufficient to separate the two. 



Although " californicus " was not so characterized as to show any tangible 

 distinctive features from the auritus, we prefer to adopt it, as the necessity 

 for a new name will thereby be obviated. 



5. Podiceps (Pedetaithya) Holbolli Reinhardt. 



Pod. rubricollis, Audub. et al. script. Amer. ; nee Lath., 1790, et auct. 

 Europ. P. griseigena, Lawr., 1858, excl. synou. Nee Coli/mbus arisei- 

 gena, Bodd. P. Holbolli, Reinhardt, 1853. 

 Sp. Char. Generally similar to P. griseigena, but larger, with the bill dis- 

 proportionately longer, stouter, and differently colored. Bill about equal to 



1862.] 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the bead, shorter than the tarsus. Length about 19 inches, wing 7'60. Bill 

 above 1-90, along gape 2-40, height at nostril '55. Tarsus 2-10; middle toe 

 and claw 2* 65. 



Habitat. North America, generally. 



The present species has by most authors been considered identical with the 

 P. griselyena Bodd. (riibricolUs of Latham,) of Europe. The differences, how- 

 ever, as pointed out by Reinhardt, are quite tangible, and so constant as to 

 render it very probable that they are of specific value. In the European bird 

 the bill measures 1-50 along the culmen, 2-00 along the gape, and '50 in 

 height at the nostrils ; the wing less than 7 inches. (See diagnosis for compari- 

 son). In color, too, the bills differ. In P. griseigena the extreme base of the 

 under mandible only is yellow, the color extending a little on the cutting edge 

 of the upper mandible at base. In HoIhoUi nearly the whole of the under 

 mandible, and the cutting edge of the upper, are yellow. 



Genus III. Stlbeocyclus Bon. 



Podiceps, Kaup, 1829, nee Lath. 



Sijlbeocyclus, Bonaparte, 1832. (Typus Pod. minor, fide G. R. Gray.) 



Tachijbaptes, Reichenbach, 1851. (Typus idem.) 



Gen. Char. Bill very short, much less than the head, scarcely more than 

 half the tarsus ; very stout, little compressed, the tip obtuse ; lateral outlines 

 about straight ; culmen a little concave at the nostrils, convex throughout 

 the rest of its length ; gonys straight to the angle, and from angle to tip ; the 

 former well defined. "Wings short ; attenuation of primaries considerable ; 

 abrupt on the inner web. Tarsus stout for this family, much abbreviated, 

 scarcely more than three-fourths the middle toe and claw. Outer lateral toe 

 abou tequal to the middle. Size small ; body full ; neck short ; without de- 

 cided crests or ruffs. 

 1. Stlbeocycl0S dominicps (Linn.) 



Pudiceps dominicus, Linn., 1766. Sylbcoci/clus dominicus, — ? 



Sp. Char. Adult. — Without decided crests, but indications of them in the 

 length and fulness of the feathers of the parts. Crown and occiput deep 

 glossy steel blue. Sides of head, and neck all round dark ashy gray, deepest 

 behind, where it is tinged with bluish. Chin variegated with ashy and white. 

 Upper parts generally brownish black, with glossy greenish reflections. Pri- 

 maries chocolate brown, the greater portions of the inner vanes of all, the 

 whole of the four or five inner, except just at tip, together with the second- 

 aries, pure white. Under parts silky white, thickly mottled with brownish 

 dusky ; the abdomen uniform dusky gray. Upper mandible dusky, the lower 

 mostly yellowish. 



Dimensions. Length 9-50; wing 3'60; bill above '70; along gape 1 '00 ; 

 tarsus 1-25 ; middle toe 1-75. 



Habitat. Central America ; Mexico ; AntiUean Is. ; Gulf of California (Gam- 

 bel) ; Rio Grande (eggs in Smiths. Coll.). 



[Note. — Sijlbeocyclus minor, the type of the genus, is given by Nuttall as an 

 inhabitant of North America ; but its existence in this country is very doubt- 

 ful.] 



Subfamily PODILYMBIN^. 



Char. Bill exceedingly stout. Commissure abruptly decurved at the end. 

 Nostrils broadly oval. Bare loral space broad. Feathers of the forehead with 

 their shafts prolonged into stiff bristles. Tarsus not three-fourths the middle 

 toe. Toes connected at base for a considerable distance ; the lobe of the hind 

 toe moderate. Without decided crests or ruffs. 



Genus IV. Podilymbus Lesson. 



Podilymhus, Lesson, 1831. (Typus Colymbus podiceps, Linn.) 



Eydroka, Nuttall, 1834. 



Dasyptilus, Swainson, 1837, fide G. R. Gray. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



Gen. Char. Bill shorter than the head, compressed, exceedingly stout, 

 obtuse at the end ; culmen straight to the nostrils, then very convex to the 

 decurved and acute tip of the upper mandible. Commissure slightly sinuate 

 at the base, straight to near the tip, where it is suddenly deflected. Gonys 

 regularly convex, the angle scarcely appreciable. Upper mandible covered with 

 soft skin from the base to the nostrils, between which are two fossae, the an- 

 terior shallow and oblong, the posterior triangular and deep, opening into the 

 bare loral space ; the two separated by an oblique ridge. Nostrils situated 

 near the extremity of the anterior fossa. Outer three or four primaries ab- 

 ruptly attenuated near the end. Tarsus much abreviated, comparatively 

 stout, about three-fourths the middle toe and claw. Middle and outer toe 

 nearly equal. Lobes of toes broad, connected at base for a greater distance 

 than in other genera. 



1. PoDiLYMBDS PODiCEPS (Linn.) 



Colymbus podiceps, Linn., 1766. Pod'dymhus pod. Lawr., 1858. Podil. 

 lineatus, Heerm., 1854. Colijmhus ludovicianns, Gmel., 1788. Podiceps 

 htdov. Lath., 1790. Pod. caroUnensis, Lath., 1790. Sylheoojclus carol., 

 Bon., 1838. 

 Habitat. Continent of North America. 



On a new genus of Fishes allied to AULOEHYNCHUS and on the affinities 

 of the Family AT)LORHYNCHOID.E, to which it belongs. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



In the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences for July, 1861, 

 (p. 168), I have described a new type of fishes, and referred it to the family of 

 Aulostomatoids, with which it agreed in the elongation of the body, form of 

 the head, opposition of the dorsal and anal fins and the development before 

 the former of free spines as well as the presence of four branchiostegal rays. 

 In the MSS. remarks on the relations of the genus, intended for the Report 

 on the Fishes collected by the Northwestern Boundary Commission, I had 

 commented on the relations of the new form and its affinity to the Qasterostoid 

 genus Spinachia. I have now the pleasure of making known a genus which 

 is still more closely related to Spinachia, and which it would not be even 

 very improper to refer to the family of Gasterosteoids. It has, however, the 

 four branchiostegal rays of Aitlostoma and Solenostomus, as well as the more 

 elongated tube. But I am disposed to believe that the four subfamilies* of 

 the Aulostomatoid fishes proposed in my former paper, are true families, and 

 that Aiilorhynchus, and especially the new genus are at least as closely related 

 to the Gasterosteoids as to the Aulostomatoids. They agree with the former 

 family in 



1st. General form. 2d. Development of the dorsal and anal fins and the 

 antecedent spines. 3d. Development of the forearm (ulnar and radial 

 bones) and of the pectoral fin. 4th. Position of the ventral fins. 5th. De- 

 velopment of the caudal fin. 



The aflSnity of the two families is further shown by the possession of other 

 characters in common by the Spinachianre and AuUchthys. 



* The genus Siphonognatkus of Richardson appears to be the type of a peculiar family 

 (Siphognathoidae), more nearly related to ihe Labroids than to the typical Aulostomatou's 

 fishes, aiihou^h having the four branchiostegal rays, tubular snout, &;c. of the latier. 

 Dr. Gunther has first perceived its affinities, but appears to be wrong in referring it to 

 ihe same family with the other Labroids. 



1862.] 16 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



1st. The special form. 2d. The extension of the facial bones. 3d. The 

 armature of the lateral line. 4th. Extent of spinigerous dorsal surface. 



When it is remembered how important and how peculiar are many of the 

 characters thus enumerated, no one will hesitate to admit the close affinity 

 of the two families. The tendency will be doubtless rather to unite the two, 

 but after reflecting on the importance of the coincidence between the develop- 

 ment of the facial bones and the number of branchiostegal rays, I would 

 be very unwilling to do so myself. 



With regard to the affinities of Centriscus and Amphisile,* I have consider- 

 able doubt. If, on the one hand, an affinity to the Aulostomatous fishes is 

 indicated by the development of the facial bones, the anchylosis of the an- 

 terior vertebrae, the development of the ventral fins, and, in the Amphisi- 

 loids, of the forearm ; on the other hand, by the reduced number of the 

 vertebrae and some other peculiarities, they evince at least a singular analogy 

 to the Plectognaths. 



Genus Aclichthys, Brevoort. 



Body moderately elongated and almost cylindrical ; the tail from the anus 

 to the caudal fin is mu3h elongated and gradually merges into the very slender 

 caudal peduncle ; the latter is little depressed, but its dorsal and inferior sur- 

 faces are nearly plane. Anus subcentral. Skin mostly naked ; the lateral 

 line is protected by a row of nearly concealed plates, which are each sur- 

 mounted by a longitudinal carina ending in a spine directed backwards. Head 

 oblong and quadrangular behind the eyes, and corrugated above. Tube 

 slightly longer than the rest of the head, rigid and inflexible, tapering to the 

 front, and subquadrate. Mouth terminal and small. The intermaxillary 

 bones have moderate diverging limbs and the posterior processes longer than 

 the limbs. Teeth on the jaws very fine. Nostrils nearly simple, situated at 

 about a third of the distance from the eyes to the end of the tube. Branchi- 

 osteo-al rays four on each side. Dorsal and anal fins nearly intermediate 

 between the head and caudal ; they are opposite to each other, oblong, and 

 have bifurcated rays. Anal fin close behind the anus. Dorsal spines extend- 

 ing from the nape to the fin ; they are extremely short, subtriangular and 

 ..ompressed from before backwards, and each one is depressible in a groove, 

 intervening between which and the succeeding spine are small corrugated 

 plates. Caudal fin small or moderate. Pectoral fins oblong, with the rays 



* Amphisile and Cenlriicus appear to represent two distinct but allied groups, disiin- 

 tuished by the difference of form as well as the difference in ihe development of ihe 

 radial and ulnar bones. Centriscus vclilarix Pallas, is an intermediate form. 



The Amphisilina; would then have two genera,- 



1st Amphifile Klein. Posterior process of dorsal cuirass with a spine articulated to 

 its summit. Ribs 10-11. B 4. V. 4. 



A. punctulata jBrcr. A. strigata Gthr. 



2d Arevtrachme Gill. Posterior process of dorsal cuirass acute and not spinigerous. 

 Ribs 6. B. 3. V. 3. 



Amphisile scutata Cuv. 



The Orthichihjinaj with one genus: 



Orthichihys Gill, with a straight body and longer anal. 



Centriscus velitaris Pallas. 



The CenlriscinE are represented by two genera : 



1st. Centriscops Gill. Body abruptly constricted behind the vertical fins. Breast 

 with three longitudinal rows of plates. 



Centriscus humerosus Rich. 



2d. Centriscus L. Body oblong, slowly merging into the caudal peduncle. Breast 

 with three longitudinal rows of pbitcs. 



1. CenUiscuB scolopax L. 2. C. gracilis Loue. 3. C. Japonicus Gthr. 



[April. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



apparently subequal and bifurcated. Antepectoral region longitudinally ob- 

 long. Ventral fins small, inserted a short distance behind the pectorals, and 

 separated by the comparatively wide pubic bones. There are less than five 

 rays to each ventral, the number being apparently a spine and four rays, 

 which are simply articulated. 



This genus is nearly related to Aulorhynchus, but differs in the ossified 

 snout, v.'hich, like the crown, is corrugated, the structure of the jaws, the 

 lateral row of plates, the form of the dorsal spines and the presence of inter- 

 vening plates, and, finally, in the structure of the ventral fins and the arma- 

 ture of the pubic bones. The pectoral fins are mutilated, and it is therefore 

 difficult to decide whether their form was similar to those of Aulorhynchus, 

 but it is probable that such was the case, or that at least the inferior rays 

 were as long as those immediately above, and consequently the posterior 

 margins of the fins truncated. 



AuLicHTHTS Japonicus, Brevoort. 



The snout forms 7-12ths of head's length, exceeds twice the height of the 

 body and is nearly l-7th of its length. 



B. 4. D. XXV. 8. A. I. 10. C. 5. 13. 4. P. 11. V. I. 4. Lat. line 52. 



Purplish brown, darker over tube, lighter on abdomen ; opercles silvery 

 iridescent ; humeral area bluish silvery, (^Brevoort. ) 



H-ibitat. — Japanese coast. 



Eemarks on the relations of the Genera and other groups of CTJBAIT FISHES. 

 BY THEODORE GILL. 



My attention having been attracted to the fishes of the Island of Cuba and 

 some points in their classification and arrangement by the recent researches 

 of Prof. Poey and his correspondence, it is hei'e proposed to off'er some obser- 

 vations on the affinities of the genera and higher groups found in the waters 

 surrounding that island,* the groups being discussed in the order of M. Poey's 

 Conspectus. 



M. Poey's arrangement differs chiefly from that proj)osed in the "Catalogue 

 of the Fishes of the Eastern Coast of North America" by the precedence 

 given to the subclasses Elasmobranchii and Ganoids, and to the Teleostean 

 orders of Plectognathi and Lophobranchii. The distribution of the sharks 

 and rays among families has also been omitted, as well as the subdivisions 

 of families into subfamilies. 



Seven of the families of Squali are represented in Cuban waters. They 

 are the Galeorhinoidse, Cestraciontoidfe, Lamnoidse, Alopecoida;, Notidanoidae, 

 Spinacoidse and Ginglymostomatoidje. The Squalus tihuro and 5. acronotus 

 belong to the genus Isoplagiodon, Gill; the 6'. platyodon, S. obtusus and *§. longi- 

 manus to Eulamia. For the Oxyrhina ylauca and its allies,! the genus Isu- 

 Topsis has been lately proposed. 



Of the Rays, five families are represented : 



The Plectognathi are rather numerous. The most interesting is the Hollar- 

 dia Hollardi, (Poey.) which is nearly allied to the Triacanthodes anomalus of 

 Japan ; the two genera appear to belong to a peculiar subfamily (Triacantho- 

 dinae) of the family of Triacanthoidte. 



The Percoids of Cuba are represented by many genera, and may be dis- 

 tributed in the following manner : the subfamilies are only provisional ones. 



* 1 entertain doubts as to the validity of some of the species proposed by M. Poey, but 

 have generally preferred to leave to that learned gentleman the determination of such 

 doubirul species. 



t The species of Cuba is probably the same as the IsuropsU dekayi of our owji 

 coast 



1862.] 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



PERCIN^. 

 § I. Ccntropomtis, (Lac.) § II. Liopropoma, Gill, Ckorististium, Gill. 



SERRANIN^.* 



§ III. Verilus, Poey, Elastoma, Sw. § IV. Haliperca, Gill, (Serrantis 

 bivittatus, Val., C. tigrinus, Block, Centropristis tabacarius, Cuv. et. Val., 

 C. plioebe, Poey, C. fusculus, Poey,) Diplectrum, Holb., Mentiperca, Gill, (Ser- 

 ranus luciopercaiius, Poey.) § V. Brachyrhinus, Gill, (Serranus creolus, Cuv. 

 et Val.) § VI. Epinephelus, Bloch, (Serranus arara, Val., &c.,) Lioperca, 

 Gill, (Serranus inermis, Cuv. et Val.,) Bodianus, Bloch, (Serranus outalibi, 

 Cuv.et Val., S. punctatus, L., S. guativere, Cuv. et Val., S. guttatus, L., S. 

 apiarius, Poey,) Gonioplectrus, Gill, (Plectropoma hispanum, Cuv. et Val.,) 

 Prospinus, Poey, (Plectropoma chloropterum, Cuv. et VaL,) Hypopl ectrus, 

 Gill, (Plectropoma puella, Cuv. et Val., P. indigo, Poey, P. vitnlinum, P., P. 

 bovinum. P., P. gummi-gutta, P., P. guttavarium, P., P. nigricans, P., P. ac- 

 censum, P. and P. affine. P.) and Sckistorus, Gill (Serranus mystacinus, Poey.) 



RHYPTICIN^. 

 Rhypticus, Cuv. 



LUTJANIN^t (rather SPAROIDS.) 



Ocyurus, Gill, (Mesoprion chrysurus, Cuv. et Val.,) Lutjamis, (Bloch,) Cuv., 

 1817, (Mesoprion griseus, Cuv. et Val., &c.,) R/iomboplites, Gill, fCentropristes 

 aurorubens, Cuv. et Val.,) Platyinius, Gill, (Mesoprion vorax, Poey. 



The mutual relations of the genera of the Serraninse are indicated in the 

 following table : 



I. Dorsal deeply notched and nearly double. Caudal forked 



and acutely lobed. 



B. 5 (?) ' Verilus. 



B. 7 Elastoma. 



II. Dorsal nearly or quite entire. 



A. Caudal forked and acutely lobed. Dorsal low and uni- 

 form, (IX. 18 — 19) Brachyrhinus. 



AA. Caudal entire, or simply emarginated. 



B. Body blender. Scales moderate, (50 — 75.) Teeth not 

 recumbent. 

 Jaws sahequal ; preoperculum with a posterior and angular 



group of spines Diplectrum. 



Jaws equal; preoperculum serrated Haliperca. 



Chin prominent. Caeca very few, (2) Mentiperca. 



* The other genera confounded with Serranun and Plectropoma (Cuv.) are the follow- 

 ing : LV('pA<E<on, Sw. (Serranus phaEion, C.V) Va ri ola, Sw. (SAouti, C. V.) Serranichthys, 

 Bikr., Gonioperca, Gill (S. albomaculatus, Jenyns), Lahoptrcn, Gill (S. labriformis, 

 Jeni/ns), Mycteroperca, Gill (S. olfax, Jenyns) Serranus, Cuv., Hyporthodus, Gill, Plectro- 

 poma, Cuv., Hypopleclrodes, Gill (P. nigrorubrum. C. V.) Acanthintiuft, Gill (P. serraium, 

 0. V.) A synopsis of the subfamily may be hereafter expected. 



The DuUs auriga and D. flaviventris are probably true SerraninE, and very distinct 

 from D. teeniurus and its allies, for which I have proposed the name of Moronopsis. 

 Dul.es amliguus belongs to still anothr r genus {Pleclroplites, Gill) widely distinct from 

 Moronopsis 



t The remaining Lutjaninae appear to represent at least four more generic types : 

 Macolor, Bikr. (Diacope macolor, Cuv. et Vol.,) Proamblys, Gill (Diacope nigra, Cuv.,) 

 distinguished by its parabolic profile ; HypopUtes, Gill (RIesoprion retrospinis, Cuv.et 

 Val.) with several strong teeth along the preo])erculum below ; and Evopliles, Gill, 

 (Mesoprion pomacanthus, Bikr.) the angle of whose preoperculum has a very stout 

 spine. The differences existing between the other species of Gtnyoroge {Diacope, C.) and 

 Lufjanus {Mesoprion, Cuv) appear to be of less value than those between different sec- 

 tions of the combined genera, and are scarcely indicative of natural genera. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



BB. Body oblong. Scales small. Teeth recumbent behind 

 canines. 

 Preoperculam entire, or simply serrated below. 



Scales smooth and greasy to the touch. D. XI Lioperca. 



Scales rough. D. XI. (X., XII.) Epinephelus. 



Scales rough. D. IX Bodianus. 



Preoperculum beneath with one or more spines recurved 

 forwards. 

 Preoperculum with a single plectroid spine at its angle. 



D. VIII , Gonioplectrus. 



Preoperculum with one or two spurs below. D. XI. 



D. XI. 18 — 19. Pyloric caeca 8 Prospinus. 



D. XI. 14. Pyloric caeca numerous and subdivided Schistorus. 



Preoperculum serrated below. D. X. 14—15 Hypoplectrus. 



The American genera of Lutjaninse may be distinguished as follows : 



I. Caudal forked and with slender acute lobes Ocyurus. 



II. Caudal emarginated. 



Vomerine teeth in a triangular patch. 



Profile straight ; occiput crested Lutjanus. 



Profile gibbous ; occiput flattened Platyinius. 



Vomerine teeth in a rhombic patch Rhomboplites. 



The Chilodipteroidie of Bleeker are represented by three genera in Cuba, 

 " which ought, perhaps, to be placed among two subfamilies. 



AMIIN^ or APOGONIN^. 

 Amia, Gron. (= Monoprion, Poey.) 



SCOMBROPIN.E. 

 Scombrops, Temm. et Schlegel, Sphyrcenops, Gill. 



The genera Arnia, Gr. or Apogon, Lac. and Apogonichthys, Blkr. and Gun- 

 ther are also exceedingly closely related, and perhaps scarcely worthy of 

 generic distinction. 



The family of Berycoidse, as established by Mr. Lowe, is, perhaps, natural, 

 and possibly embraces all the forms referred to it by that gentleman and Dr. 

 Giinther, except Polymixia, Lowe, which is apparently the type of a distinct 

 one, having analogical relations to the Mulloidse. Of five subfamilies* (Bery- 

 cinae, Holocentrinae, Heterophthalminag, Trachichthyinse and Monocentrinje) 

 of the Berycoidse, two are represented by four genera in Cuba, — Holocentrum, 

 Art., Plectrypops, Gill (Holocentrum retrospinis, G«icA.)and Myriopristis, Cuv. 

 among the Holocentrinas and Beryx among the Berycinse. The living Holo- 

 centrinse may be distributed as follows : 



I. Snout more or less projecting. 



Snout acute and trihedral Rhynchichthys 



Snout convex in front {Rh. brachyrhynchus, Blkr.) Rhinoberyx. 



II. Snout not projecting in front. 



A. Penultimate anal spine very long. 



Preoperculum augulated and armed with a large spine, 



nearly continuous with the lower margin Holocentrum. 



AA. Penultimate anal spine moderate. 



Preoperculum not rectangular nor with a single large 

 spine. 



a.. Preorbital with large teeth curved backwards Corniger. 



/?. Preorbital with large teeth curved, forwards Plectrypops. 



■y. Preorbital simply dentated Myriopristis. 



* These subfamilies, if such they be, are remarkably distinguished from each other by 

 the difference in development of the fins, &c. 



1862.] 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The Berycinas are represented by two quite distinct genera, — Beryx, Cuv. 

 with the B. decadactylus and B. splendens, Lowe, and Centrohe.ryx, with Beryx 

 Uneatus, Cuv. et Val. and B. qffinis, Giinther. They are chiefly distinguished 

 by the structure of the fins. 



I. D. VI— VII I 12—13. A. IV., 12—15. V. I. 7 Centroberyx. 



II. D. IV. 13— 19. A. IV. 26— 30. V. 1. 10 or I. 10 + a: Beryx 



The family of Msenoidei of Cuvier scarcely appears to be a natural one. 

 Gfrres is probably the type of a distinct family (Gerreoidse, BIkr. ) which has 

 two subfamilies and four genera. The Grerreinse are divisable into three 

 genera : 

 I. Preoperculum serrated. Second dorsal and second anal spines 



very large Gerres. 



n. Preoperculum entire. Second dorsal and second anal spines 

 moderate. 



Dorsal deeply notched..... Diapterus. 



Dorsal entire Synistius. 



Diapterus is the prior name of Eiicinostomus, Baird and Girard. On that 

 account the name must be retained, although the gentlemen just named first 

 properly limited the genus, while Ranzani named it under a misapprehension 

 as to its affinities. Diapterus happens to be a very distinctive name, although 

 intended to alhide to the supposed sei^aration of the soft rays. It embraces 

 the Gerres aprion, Cuv., G. zebra, M. T., G. gnla, Cuv. and many others. 

 Synistius has only one species, — the Gerres longirostris, (Rapp.) of Giinther. 



The Pristipomatoids are represented by one subfamily and four genera, — 

 Anisotremus, Gill, Prisfipoma, Cuv., OrtJiopristis, Girard and Hcemulon, Cuv. 

 Lohotes Cuvier nnd Datnioides, Blkr., rather represent a family perhaps some- 

 what allied to the Nandoidre. 



The Sciasnoids are comparatively few in number. The Corvina ronchw, 

 Cuv., appears to belong to the genus Batrdiella. The Johiiius dentex, Cuv., is 

 the type of the genus Odontoscion, Gill ; before its position in the family can 

 be determined, it is requisite to know the proportions of the abdominal and 

 caudal vertebrre. 



The Pomacentroid genus Furcaria is scarcely distinct from Chromis, C. 

 (Heiiases, C. V.) The Chromis tetracanthiis, Poey represents a new genus 

 (Nandopsis, Gill.) 



The Chaetodontoids are represented by the genera Sarothrodus. Gill (^ Cha- 

 todov, Cuv. non Art.) Prognathodes, Gill, (Chelmo peltse, Gthr.) Holocanthus, 

 Lac, Chatodon, Art. {=Poinacanthus, Lac.) 



The Ephippioids by Parephippus, Gill. The genus Pempheris, Cuv., is the 

 type of a well-marked family, (Pempheroid?e.) 



The CoryphancE and Lampugi of Val. do not appear to be generically dis- 

 tinct ; if, however, the latter are distinct, the name of Caranxomorus of Lace- 

 pede and Cuvier should be accepted. 



The family of Trenoides of Cuvier, or Cepolidae, is not a natural one, the 

 Trachypteri and Lepturi of Artedi being little related to each other. The 

 name Lepturus is suificiently distinct from Leptura. 



The Scombroids, as now limited, embrace the genera Scomber, Orycniis, 

 (Cuvier,) Cyhium, Ruvettus, Cocco, Epinmila, Poey and GempyJus. Orycnus 

 may be substituted for Thynnus, the latter having been previously used in 

 entomology for a valid genus. 



The Carangoids may be distributed as follows: Caranx, C, Blkr., Carangoides, 

 Bleeker, Carangops, Gill,* (C. heteroj)ygus, Poey,) Trachurops, Gill, (Caranx 



* In ihis genus there appears to be an unusual variation in dentition. In the specie 

 found along the coasl of the Southern States of the Union (,C.falcatiis, Holbrook), 

 find in a specimen eleven inches long, a scarcely perceptible row of rather distant leet 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



Plumieri, Block,) Decapterus, Blkr., BlepharicJithijs, Gill, Alectis, Raf. (= Gal 

 lus, Lac, = GallicJithys, C, = Scyris, C.,) Ujnnis, Cuv., Argyriosus, Cuv., 

 Selene, Lac, Vomer, Cuv., Chloroscomhrus, Grd., Elagatis, Bennett, ■( = De- 

 captiis, Poey, ) Zonichthys, Sw., Nancrates, Raf., lyachynotus, Lac. and Elacate, 

 Cuv., but the latter probably represents another family. Next to Elacate 

 follows the family of Echeneidoides. 



Prof. Poey, believing that there were two groups of Echeneioids charac- 

 terized by differences of dentition, — homodont and isodont, — has invited me 

 to name and describe them as genera.* I cannot, however, regard those 

 variations as indicative of generic distinction, nor as coincident with any 

 other peculiarities which would entitle the homodont and isodont species to 

 be generically distinguished, the diflferences being simply very slight dif- 

 ferences of degree. 



The Echeneioids appear, however, to form two very distinct groups of 

 higher value than genera, each of which is again divisible into two others, 

 which appear to be true genera. They are recognizable as follows : 

 I. Body and tail slender and subcylindri'al. Ventral fins 

 with their inner rays more or less connected by a 

 membrane which is partly free from the abdomen ; 

 pectorals angulated ; caudal with the median rays pro- 

 duced in the young, emarginated in the adult. Lower 



jaw with acutaneous symphiseal projection EnnEXEioES. 



«. Discal laminae 21 — 26, (E. naucrates, L.) Echeneis. 



/?. Discal lamin?e 10 — 11, {E. lineata, Menz.) Phtheirichthys. 



n. Bodj^ and t:iil robust and compressed. Ventral fins with 

 the inner rays more or less attached to the abdomen, 

 and folding in an abdominal depression ; pectorals 

 rounded ; caudal generally more or less emarginated 

 in the young, as well as in the adult. Lower jaw with 



no flap Remor.s:. 



«. Discal laminae 12 — 19, {E. remoru, L.) Remora. 



/?. Discal laminse 27, {E. scutatu, Gthr.) Remilegia. 



If the principles of Dr. Giinther are correct, all the forms described by Prof. 

 Poey would be probably referrible to five known species. That gentleman 

 and Sir John Richardson have demonstrated that the form of the caudal fin 

 (only, however, to any extent among the typical Echeneides) varies with 

 age ; consequently divisions based on the outline of that fin are illusive. 

 The species described by M. Poey would be referred by Dr. Giinther to the 

 following species; the figures in parenthesis indicate the respective size of 

 the fishes on which M. Poey founded his several species : 



1. Echeneis naucrates, Lin. =;E. guaican, P. (800 mill.) = E. metallica, P. 

 (600 milL) 



2. Echeneis albicauda, Mitchill -= (E. holbrookii, Gthr.) = E. verticalis, P. 

 (half grown, 380 mill.) 



3. Phtheirichthys lineatus = E. apicalis, P. (260 mill., half grown) -— E. 

 sphyrsenarum, P. (75 mill., very young.) 



on each palatine bone, and in another thirteen inches long, a narrow band of vilhform 

 teeth on the same bones, while Dr. Holbrook asserts, thai in a specimen nme inches 

 long, he found a '■ small patch of minute ti'eth on ihe vomer, and a small, narrow group 

 of similar teeth on each palate-bone." M. Poey denies to his C. heleropygui (which I 

 am unable lo distinguish from tise C.falrafus) any palatal teeth. Are the palatal teeth 

 then deciduous and lost with age, but still more or less persistent in different individuals ' 

 Such is probably the case. 



* M. Poey has since communicated to me his discovery of the more or less lietcrodont 

 dentition of all the species of the family known lo him. 



1862.] 




240 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



4. Remora jacobsea = (E. remora, Gthr.) = E. postica, P. (105 mill.) 



5. Remora osteochir = (E. tetrapturorum) (200 mill.) 



We may await the puMication of the second edition of the " Conspectus 

 Piscium Cubensium, " before accepting the preceding identifications as cor- 

 rect ; in that publication, M. Poey, influenced as usual by his desire for truth, 

 will correct the nomenclature of his species, and have no hesitation in re- 

 uniting some of them if a future examination should lead him to doubt the 

 correctness of his former views. I shall only remark that, among the species 

 of the group of Echeneides, there is a definite ratio in the form of the caudal 

 to the size of the species, and that the difference of dentition has been ex- 

 aggerated. After an examination of many specimens from the most distant 

 seas, I have also been, like Giinther and Richardson, unable to discover any 

 difl:erences which could be regarded as specific. The habits of the representa- 

 tives of this family would indeed render it not improbable that they should 

 be very widely distributed. 



The genus Nomeus of Cuvier probably belongs to a peculiar family (Gas- 

 teros chismatoidse.) Lampris likewise represents a special family (Lampri- 

 doidae.) 



With Dr. Bleeker, I am now disposed to believe that Aulostoma, Lac. and 

 Soleno.itomux, Gron. belong to different families, but, contrary to his opinion, 

 think that they are very nearly related. 



The Malacanthiui of Poey form a natural family. The Latilus chrysops, Val. 

 does not, however, appear to be congeneric with the type of Latilus, but is 

 distingushed by its form and the structure of the fins. It maybe called Cau- 

 lolatilus chrysops. 



The Labroidse are represented by six genera, — Lachnolamus, Cuv. Harpe, 

 Lac. (= Cossi/phus, Cuv.), Decodon, Gthr. (Cossyphus puellaris, Poey) (= La- 

 brinse), Chnerojulis, Gill (Halicluires, Riippell), (= Julides), Xirichthys, 

 Cuv. (:= Xirichthyinse), and Clepticus, Cuv. (== Clepticinfe). In retaining 

 the Labroids at the end of the symmetrical physoclystous Teleocephali in the 

 Catalogue of the Fishes of the Eastern Coast, it was by no means intended 

 to convey the ideas of the author as to the aflinities of that family. Its 

 affinities have indeed expressly been said (p. 7) to be "probably rather with 

 the Scicenoids, the Chjetodontoids and even the Percoids," &c. As, however, 

 they were not quite evident, the Pharygognathi were provisionally retained 

 where Miiller had placed them. The families are nearly related to each other 

 and should not be scattered. The most appropriate position is probably near 

 the Centrachcids. 



The single Cuban species of Polynematoid belongs to the genus Trichidion 

 of Klein, as recently restored. 



The Gobioids are represented by four subfamilies and ten genera. 



The Gobiinfe with four genera, — Gohius, Art. (mapo, P., lacertus, P.) ; Lo- 

 pJioyobius, Gill (crista-galli), characterized especially by a longitudinal coro- 

 nal crest; GohioneUus, Grd. (= Samaragduif, Poey) ; Awaous, Val. (=zRhino- 

 c/ohius, Gill = Chonophorus, P.) Eleotridinae with three genera, — Eleotris, 

 Gron. (gyrinus, guavina) ; Dormitator, Gill (Gundlachi, P., omocyaneus. P.), 

 readily distinguished by the form, the cleft or extension forwards of the 

 branchial apertures above the operculum and the large scales ; Philypnu^, VaL 

 and Erotelis, Poey, 



Amblyopodinffl with the genus Gobioi'fes, Lac. 



Sicydiinae with the genus Sicydiitfn, Val. 



The Eleotridinre cannot be separated from the Gobiinae, as the physiognomy 

 is not only similar, but there is almost a transition from one form to the other. 



The Cyclopteroids are certainly not natural associates of the Gobiesocoids, 

 the latter forming a very distinct family. Prof. Poey has committed the same 

 error as Dr. Girard in describing the ventral fins as lower pectoral rays, and 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



the disk as the ventral fins. His Gohl^sox rupestris belongs to the genus 

 Sicyases of Miiller and Troschel. 



The subfamily of Blenninae includes only three genera. The Salai-ias mar- 

 garitaceus may be referred to the genus Entomacrodus, Gill, if the presence 

 of superciliary tentacles is not considered to be of generic importance. 



The Opisthognathinse are represented by three forms, which appear to me 

 to merit generic rank. The similarity between the three groups is that which 

 should naturally exist between allied genera of a natural tribe or family ; the 

 differences of detail of structure represent generic value. The three genera 

 are Opisthognathus, Cuv. (macrognathus, P.), with minute scales and extended 

 maxillars ; Gnathijpops (maxi/lo.^us, P., ifiacrops, P.), with moderately small 

 scales and maxillars jjassiug little beyond the eyes, and Lonchopisthux {microg- 

 tiathus, P.), with normal maxillars, moderately small scales and lanceolate 

 caudal fin. Opitithognathux macrognathus, P., if not identical, is at least very 

 closely allied to the slightly previously named 0. mega^toma of Giinther. 



The families of Antennarioidae and Maltheoida?, as suggested by Dr. Bleeker, 

 appear to be good. Antennariu-i must be substituted for Chironectes, as the 

 latter had been previously used for a valid genus of marsupial mammals. 



The family of Ophidioids naturally contains only the genus Ophidinm (L.). 

 Fi^raffer (C.) is the type of a distinct family, known by the position of the 

 anus, the development of the fins, &c.; the other genera are the very distinct 

 genus Echiodon of Thompson and the Encheliophis of Miiller, which differs 

 from Fierasfer only by the absence of the pectoral fins. The Cuban species 

 is very closely related to Fiera'-fer Homei (Kaup.) Synbranchus is the type of 

 a peculiar family (Synbranchoidse, Lat. of Apodes.) 



The true Salmonoidse are not represented in Cuban nor any tropical waters. 

 Alepidosauru<t, Lowe is the type of a very distinct and remarkable family, 

 which is probably most nearly related to tLe Scombroids and Lepturoids. 

 The Cuban species belong to a peculiar group or genus ( Caulopus, Gill.) The 

 genus Saiirus, Cuv., whose prior name is Syiiodus, Gron., is the type of a 

 special family related to the Scopeloids. The S. hreviroatris, Poey has an 

 abbreviated trachinoid muzzle and an oblong anal fin, and therefore belongs 

 to the genus Trachinocephalus, Gill. 



Astronesthes, Rich, is a Chauliodontoid. 



Among the Clupeoids, the Meletla thrissa, Val. belongs to the genus Opis- 

 thonema, Gill, which is more distinct than most of the genera of Clupeoids. 



The " Fleuronectex ocellatus, Agz." of Poey and its allies belong to the genus 

 Platophrys, Swainson. 



Ophisurus is the type of a peculiar family (Ophisuroidse.) 



There is a quite strong analogy between the faunae of the Japanese and 

 West Indian archipelagoes and the neighboring seas. Dr. Giinther has in 

 two instances alluded to the resemblance between West Indian and Japanese 

 fishes. He has remarked,* in his observations on his Serrans margaritifer, a 

 South American species, that it "very much resembles the /S. tsirenitnara. 

 Faun. Japon.,.p. 7, pi. 40, fig. 3, which is said to be common in Japan and to 

 have sixteen soft rays in the dorsal fin. Still more remarkable is it that the 

 same plate represents another fish, S. octocinctus, so similar to a West Indian 

 fish, S. mystacitnis, that they cannot be separated." Again,! the same gentle- 

 man has observed that the Japanese " Me^oprion -"parua appears to be closely 

 allied to the" Cuban " Mesoprion dentatus," "and it is a very remarkable 

 fact, in the geographical distribution of fishes, that we find several species, 

 described by Schlegel in the 'Fauna Japonica,' represented in the Atlantic 

 by others, not or scarcely different, — viz., among the Serranina, Anthias ocu- 

 latus, Serranus tsirimenara and margaritiferus, Mesoprion sparuf and den/atus." 



* Giinther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c., vol. i. p. 132. 

 t Giinther, op, cit., pel. i. p. 89. 



1862.] 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The recent discoveries by Prof. Poey have much increased the unmber of 

 representative species. The HaliperccB of the West Indies are represented bj' 

 one Japanese species, {H. hirundinaceuit^. The other Serraninfe have been 

 already enumerated by Dr. Giinther. The Elastoma oculatum of the Carib- 

 bean Sea is represented by a form so closely allied tliat the distinguished 

 authors of the Fauna Japonica were unable, after a critical comparison, to 

 discover any difference. Verilus of Poey is allied to Ela>:toma and Etelis, and 

 is perhaps also represented by Caprodon (T. & S.) in Japan. The species of 

 the genus Scombrops, T. & S. has only two species, one of which is Japanese 

 and the other Cuban ; the nearest relation of the genus is also a West Indian, 

 the Sphi/reB7iops Bairdianus (Poey.) Eriunelichthys has equally Japanese and 

 West Indian species. The peculiar Priaccmtkus niphonius (Cuv. et Val.) and 

 Myriopristis Japonicus (Cuv. et Val.) are most nearly allied to West Indian 

 and North American fishes — the Priacanthus altus (Gill) and Myriopristis tra- 

 chypoma (Giinther). Finally, the species recently described as Hollardia 

 Hollardi by M. Poey, is closely related to a Japanese fish, the Triacanthodes 

 anomalus, Blkr. The forms enumerated are very peculiar and distinct ones, 

 and have no near allies in other seas. Many other genera of more universal 

 distribution or with less characteristic species, which are represented by 

 allied forms in the two seas might be added. Sufficient has been said to 

 indicate that the law which has been enunciated by botanists relating to 

 the similarity of the plants of Eastern Asia and Eastern America, may be 

 extended within more restricted limits, to the inhabitants of the sea as well 

 as to those of the land ; for the invertebrated animals, — the crustaceans, the 

 moUusks and the radiates, — to a greater or less extent, are subject to the 

 .same rule as the fishes. 



Catalogue of the FISHES of Lower California, in the Smithsonian Institution^ 

 collected by Mr. J. Xantus. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



In this paper are continued the descriptions of the fishes collected at Cape 

 St. Lucas, by Mr. John Xantus. The sequence of the families is not entire- 

 ly in accordance with their natural afUnities. 



Family TEUTHYDOIDyE (Cnv.) 



Genus Prionhkus C. et V. 



PKIONURnS PUKCTATUS Gill. 



The greatest height equals two-fifths of the total length (-40,) the head 

 forms more than a fourth ("27.) The length of the snout much exceeds half 

 of the head's length ("15, ) and is a half greater than the diameter of the orbit 

 (•10;) it is produced and its upper profile very obliquely incurved. There 

 are on each side of the upper jaw eight teeth, and in the lower jaw sis. The 

 tail has three median laminre, the anterior of which are conic, and the last 

 bifid, and one smaller one above and below at the base of the caudal. 



D. VIII. 26. A. III. 22. (V. I. 5.) 



The color is whitish gray, spotted with black on the head, body, dorsal, and 

 anal fins ; the caudal peduncle and fin, pectoral and ventral fins are im- 

 maculate. 



Many specimens of this species were obtained at Cape St. Lucas, It widely 

 differs from the previously known species by its spotted body ; in other 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 243 



respects it is most nearly allied to the Priomirus laticlavlus Val., from the 

 Gallapagos Islands. 



Family CHyETODOXTGIDJE. 

 Subfamily CH/ETODONTIN^. 



Genus Sarothkodcs Gill. 

 Sakothkodus nigrirostris Gill. 



The body is elevated, the height being nearly equal to three-fifths of the 

 extreme length. The snout is little produced, and shorter than the diame- 

 ter of the eye. The pectorals equal the head's length, and are scarcely longer 

 than the ventrals. The lateral line is slowly curved upward as far as the 

 vertical of the fourth soft dorsal ray, and is there nearly parallel with the back, 

 from which it is mostly separated by an interval equal to the width of the in- 

 terorbital area. 



D. XII. 24. A. III. 20. 



Scales lat. line 44. 



The ground color is apparently light and uniform. The head is whitish ; 

 the muzzle has a blackish band ; there is a transverse interorbital band emar- 

 ginated behind and much narrower than the orbit. A band between the dor- 

 sal fin and the interorbital area descends to the temples and is bordered by 

 whitish. Another obliquely crosses the dorsal fin, caudal peduncle and near 

 the margin of the anal, the anterior margin of which extends from the base 

 of the anterior soft rays to the axilla of the anal fin ; the band is bordered by 

 whitish. The caudal, the produced portion of the dorsal, margin of the 

 anal, and all the pectoral and ventral fins appear to have been uniformly 

 light. 



This species is allied to Sarothrodus uli e t e us i s {Cbatodon uhetensis 

 Blkr.) S. robustus(C. robitstu^^ Gthr.,) S. humeralis(C. hinneralh 

 Gthr.) S. gracilis, (C. gracilis Gthr.,) and S. m ac ul o-c inc tu s Gill: 

 but is readily distinguished by the above diagnosis. 



Two specimens, about two inches and a half long, were sent by Mr. Xantus 

 to the Institution ; the alcohol having evaporated, both have been dried up. 



Gemis HoLACAXTHiTS (Lam. ) C. et V. 



HOLACANTHUS STRIGATCS Gill. 



The greatest height exceeds two-fifths (-43) of the length. The leugth of the 

 head forms almost a quarter (-24 ;; the diameter of the orbit equals a third 

 (•OS) of that length, and is less than the length of the snout (=-09,) and greater 

 than that of the preopercular spine (-07.) The margin of the dorsal and anal 

 fins are slightly convergent backwards ; the angle of the former is little acu- 

 minate, and passes beyond the anterior half of the caudal, the longest rays 

 nearly equalling the head's length ; the anal angle is obtuse or slightly 

 rounded. The caudal is scarcely convex, and slightly oblique, its upper 

 angle passing beyond and less blunt than the lower ; the length is less than 

 a fiifth (-19) of the total. The pectoral exceeds a fifth (-21) and the ventrals 

 nearly equal a quarter (-24) of the total length. 



D. "XIV. 3 7. A. III. 16. 



The color is dark purplish brown, crossed below the seventh spine by a 

 whitish band attenuated and curved backwards below ; four nearly equidis- 

 tant indistinct vertical bluish lines cross the body between the band and the 

 base of the caudal. The head is girdled with two broader and more distinct 

 bluish bands, one in front of the eyes, and the other in front of the dorsal and 

 behind the eyes. The dorsal and anal have two indistinct lines parallel with 

 the borders, and the posterior margins are also bluish. The pectorals, 

 dorsal and caudal are yellow ; the latter alone margined with brown. 



1862.] 




244 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



This species, like the Pimelepterus, is related to a species of the Red Sea, the 

 UolacaiU/nis maculosus C. et V., but is readily distinguished bj the less ele- 

 vated body and iins, number of rays and details of coloration. It is also re- 

 lated to the H. formo^u^ Cast, of Brazil, and more remotely to 11. passer, Val., 

 of the Gallapagos Islands, and H. diacanthus, Gthr., of the Indian Ocean. 



Genus Pomacanthodes Gill. 



POMACANTHODES ZONIPECTUS Gill. 



The form much resembles that of Pomacanthus. The greatest height equals 

 three-fiftlis (-59) of the length. The head forms about a quarter (•26) and 

 the caudal fin about a sixth (-17) of the total length. The diameter of the 

 orbit enters nearly four times (-7-20) in the head's length, the snout two and 

 a half times, ("10) and the preopercular spine six times and a half ("04.) The 

 dorsal is considerably produced at the sixth ray which passes behind the 

 rounded posterior margin and nearly equals a third ("SI) of the total length. 

 The anal is simply rounded behind, and the camlal truncated. The pecto- 

 rals equal a fifth (•21) and the ventrals three-tenths (•30) of the length. The 

 back behind the nape is gibbous or protuberant. 



D. XI. 23—24. A. III. 20. 



The color is brownish margined with light on each scale. A very dark 

 brown band girdles the breast behind the ventral and pectoral fins ; the dark 

 color is prolonged upwards to the fifth dorsal spine, and merges into the 

 lighter color of the head. The pectorals and caudal are marbled, the other fins 

 nearly uniformly dark. 



One specimen eight inches long was collected by Captain Dow, at San Sal- 

 vador. 



PiMELEPTEROID.B Gill. 



This family may be modified to embrace those fishes with the outline corres- 

 pondingly developed above and bulow the median axis of the body, and by 

 scaly fins and compressed teeth, as well as the development of numerous pan- 

 creatic caeca. The principal types are the Pimelepterinse, Girellinse, and 

 Scorpidinse. Two of those types are represented on the California coast. 



Subfamily GIRELLIN^ Gill. 



Genus Griella (Gray,) Gthr. 



GiRELLA NIGRICANS Gill. * 



Camarina nigricans Ayres, Proc. California Academy of Natural Sciences, 

 pt. ii. p. 81, fig. 22. Oct. 1861. 



Girella nigricans Gill, Proc. Acad. Natural Sciences, vol. xiv. p. 16. 

 1862. 



This species appears to be a true Girella, and I had referred it to that genus 

 early in 1850, when hastily examining the species then sent by Mr. Xantus. 

 I have always found fourteen dorsal spines. There is a more or less distinct 

 white spot under the spinous dorsal. If distinct, then it may be named G. 

 dorsomacula. 



D. XIV. 13. A. III. 11. 



The genus Girella as limited by Dr. Giinther, scarcely appears to be 

 homogeneous. The Girella simplex, {Crenidens simplex Rich.) has the incisors 

 entire and undivided, and therefore represents a distinct genus to which the 

 name of Incisidens may be given. 



Subfamily PIMELEPTERIN^ Gthr. 

 Genus Pimelepterus (Lac. ) 

 This genus as adopted here is intended to embrace only those sj^ecies with 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



nearly uniformly low dorsal and anal fins, and consequently excludes Pime- 

 lepterus tahmel Riippell, P. Dussianieri C. et V. and P. raynaldi C. et V., in 

 whicli the soft parts of the dorsal and anal fins are much elevated. It is 

 therefore proposed to refer them to a distinct genus under the name of Opis- 

 THiSTirs. 



The Pimelepteriis waigensis has been stated by Cuvier and Valenciennes to ap- 

 parently have five or six pyloric caeca.* In the species of our eastern coast which 

 I have examined, as well as in T . fuxcus andi Opisthistius tahmel, they are pres- 

 ent in very great number. There is, therefore, an anomalous range of varia- 

 tion for so very closely related species, or appearances have been deceptive to 

 Messrs. Cuvier and Valenciennes. In two specimens of the very closely re- 

 lated P. analogu opened by us, the intestines were completely decayed, al- 

 though the fishes were externally in a fine state of preservation. 



The Pimelepterus lavifrons of Tschudi is not at all related to this genus. 



PlMELEPTEKUS AXALOGTJS Gill. 



The greatest height enters 2.6-7 ('SS) times in the extreme length. The 

 head forms about two-ninths (-22) and equals the length of the caudal; the 

 snout enters three times in that length, and is less than the width of the in- 

 terorbital area ("OSi) : the median rays of the caudal are half as long as the 

 longest, and rather more than half as long as the head (-11^.) The dorsal is 

 highest at its sixth spine, the length of which enters eleven times (•09) in the 

 total, and is twice as great as the last spine ; the greatest height of the soft 

 portion equals a quarter of the head's length ("05^.) The pectorals and ven- 

 trals have the same length, and are contained more than eight times ('12) in 

 the total. 



D. XL 14. A. III. 13. C. 1. I. 7. 6. I. 1. P. 2. 14. V. 1. 5. 



The teeth are about twenty- two in number in each jaw. The vertical part in 

 the adult is as long as the heel or horizontal part, and the apex subtrian- 

 gular. 



13 



Scales 75 — 

 20 



The color of the adult is grayish on the back, and on the flanks indistinctly 

 longitudinally banded alternately with yellow and grayish or silvery, the 

 former along the middle of the scales, and the latter along the adjoining sides. 

 In the young, large yellowish spots are distributed on the body. The preor- 

 bital is silvery. The fins are rather dark. 



Nearly related to Pimelepterus tvatgiensis (Quoy and Gaimard) and P. 

 incisor C. et V., but apparently differing slightly in its proportions. 



Family GE RREOIDuE BVkr. 



Subfamily GERREIN.E Blkr. 



Genus Diaptekus (Ranzani.) 



DiAPTERCS CALIFOKXIENSIS Gill. 



The greatest height nearly equals a third (•32) of the extreme length ; the 

 caudal peduncle is slender and attenuated at the middle. The head forms 

 less than a quarter ('22) of the length ; the diameter of the orbit enters two 

 lines and two-thirds ("09) in the head's length, tbe snout three times and a 

 third. The interorbital area is flattened, and the groove for the posterior pro- 

 cesses of the intermaxillary bones is broad, scaleless, semioval between the 

 eyes, and attaining to the vertical of the ends of the maxillary bones ; the ex- 

 posed portions of the latter bones are convex above, semicordate, and twice as 

 long as broad. The lateral line is sigmoidally curved. 



* " Le nombre des coecums qui entourent le pylore nous a paru de cinq ou six." 



1862.] 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The second and third dorsal spines are nearly equal, angulated at the ter- 

 minal third (normally ?) contained rather more than seven times (-13 13J) in 

 the total length, and nearly twice as long as the last one ("07. ) The third 

 anal spine is larger than the second, shorter than the last dorsal one and a 

 quarter ("06) of the head's length. The caudal forms between a third and 

 fourth ('29) of the length, equals the pectorals, and is twice as long as the -ven- 

 trals. 



116 



D. IX. 9-. A.m. 7-. Scales 44—. 

 1 1 13 



The color is silvery with steel blue reflections above ; the fins immacu- 

 late. 



DiAPTEEUS GEACILIS Gill. 



'The greatest height scarcely equals a quarter ('23) of the extreme length ; 

 the caudal peduncle is robust and regularly attenuated to the base of its fin. 

 The head forms between a fourth and fifth ('22) of the length ; the diameter 

 of the orbit enters nearly three times (7-22) in length of the head, exceeds 

 the length of the snout ('06) and equals the interorbital area. The maxillary 

 groove is linear, naked, and extends beyond the vertical from the anterior 

 ihu-d of the pupil. The exposed surface of each maxillary bone is long, 

 oblique and uniformly wide to its anterior third, whence the upper margin 

 is bent forwards. The posterior half of the lateral line is rectilinear and par- 

 allel with the dorsal outline. 



The second and third dorsal spines are slender, nearly straight, contained 

 eight or nine times ('12, -ll) in the total length, and almost four times longer 

 than the last spine (^='U4). The third anal spine is longer than the second, and 

 equals about a third of the head's length, (-06, -06^.) The caudal fin form.'; 

 more than a fifth (•22) of the length, equals the pectoral, and is nearly twice 

 as long as the ventrals (=-12.) 



1 1 5 



D. IX. 9 -. A. III. 7 -. Scales 45 — . 

 1 1 10 



The color is silvery, and on the back tinged with purplish and with a steel 

 blue reflection. The margin of the spinous dorsal, especially at its angle, is 

 black. 



This species is allied to Diapterus apr i on ((?erres aprion C. et V.) D. 

 macrosoma (G. macrosoma Blkr.,) D. argyreus(G. argyreus C. et V.,) 

 and D. oblongus (G. ohlongus C. et V., but is distinguished by the combi- 

 nation of characters indicated in the diagnosis. 



Descriptions of two new species of VESPERTILIONIDE, and some remarks on 

 the genus ANTEOZOUS. 



BY HARRISON ALLEN. M. D. 



I have been permitted, by the Smithsonian Institution, to publish the fol- 

 lowing descriptions from specimens in its collection. 

 Lasujrds i.\termedius, nob. 



Head large, flat and hairy. Snout high, emarginate and of a brown color. 

 Nostrils opening sublaterally. Sides of face moderately inflated. Mouth and 

 lower jaw fringed with short hair. There is a small naked space at mentum. 

 The ears are high, elliptical, pointed and nearly naked ; they are strongly 

 convex on their inner border, nearly straight on their outer ; the lobe at the 

 base of the outer border is very well developed. The tragus is similar in 

 shape to that of L. centreus, but has a blunter incurved tip ; it is slightly haired 

 on facial surface. Eyes diminutive, placed near the ear. Thumb rather small. 

 Feet moderate. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 247 



Far not so extensive as in other species of the genus. Posteriorly extend- 

 ing on to the wing membrane from body, as in Z. cinereus, — running down 

 the interfemoral membrane two-thirds tlie distance and on to tlie foot ; a very 

 small brownish tuft is seen at base of thumb, and on the membrane at and 

 above the elbow, while the fourth and fifth fingers are naked. Anteriorly the 

 hair spreads up under the arm to wrist as in other species, bnt less 

 thickly. It also runs down a little way upon the interfemoral and is obser- 

 vable upon the membrane between the ulna and humeris. The wing mem- 

 brane extends to base of toes. The calcaneum is moderately developed. 



General hue olive brown. Blackish at base, dirty brown at centre, with 

 a clearer tip. The color is somewhat darker behind than in front. 



4 1 2 1 4 

 Dentition, m -, c-, in. -, c-, m -=30. 



5 1 6 15 



The small premolar placed behind the canine of the upper jaw of L. 

 cinereus and novaboracensis is here absent. 



This species in size, physiognomy, number of incisors, and character of the 

 distribution of the fur resembles the type of Lasiurus, while in shape of the 

 ears and disposition of molars it is akin to Seotophilus. The interfemoral 

 membrane is scarcely more hairy than in S. noctivagans, yet the entire con- 

 tour of the animal is strongly Lasiurian, — and in fixing it thus we must de- 

 cide that the small premolar in the upper jaw, the rounded ear and hairy in- 

 terfemoral, are not essential characters to the genus. 



As a species it is intermediate between L. Grai/i Tomes, and L. cinereus, 

 Pal. de Beau. It is larger than L. Grayi, and smaller than the majority 

 of specimens of L. cinereus; the thumb is small as in the former, but 

 the wing membrane extends to the base of toes as in the latter ; it is distinct 

 from both in the brown fur, in the high ear and the scantiness of the hair on 

 the interfemoral membrane. 



Habitat. Matamoras, Tamaulipas. L. B. Conch. 



MEASUREMEXTS. 



Expanse 130 



Height of ear 06 



" " tragus 0-3 



Length of forearm 2-0 



" " tibia 0-9 



" " tail 2-0 



" "thumb ;0-5 



" " foot 0-4 



" " longest finger 2-0 



Vespektilio NiTiDus, uob. 



Body small ; head and face very hairy, the nostrils sej^arated by a narrow 

 slightly emarginate space ; ears longer than head, slightly emarginate on 

 outer edge, curving somewhat outwards, hairy at basal third behind, extend- 

 ing up a greater distance on the inner side ; tragus tapering, leaning a little 

 outwards, and aboiit half the height of auricle ; lips extensively whiskered ; 

 thumb and foot small ; interfemoral membrane ample ; calcaneum rather 

 long, with an excalcaneal m-embrane ; color of membranes darkish brown. 



Fur long and silky. Color plumbeus at base with russet tips behind and 

 lighter russet or ashy ciner«us in front. Interfemoral membrane naked, ex- 

 cept the usual tuft at the base behind, and a few lightish hairs arranged tran.s- 

 veraely in front. 

 Skull inflated, rather flattish. 



6 1 4 16 

 Dentition, m-, C-, in.-, c-, m-=38. 



6, 1 6 1 6 

 1862.] 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Upper jaw. Incisors equal ; centrals bifid, laterals unicuspid, intervening 

 space in the mesial line. 



Canines simple. Premolars three in number, anterior ones small. Third 

 large. The remaining molars as usual. 



Lower jaw. Incisors trilobed, excepting those contiguous to the canines, 

 which are quadrilobed. Of the premolars the first is larger than the second ; 

 the third is larger than both. Remaining molars not peculiar. 



In the bat labelled 1745, Gaudaloupe, the second premolar both above and 

 below is so wedged in between the first and third that it is scarcely visible from 

 the outside. 



It bears a strong resemblance to V. mystacinus, Leis. The emarginate ear, 

 elongate tragus, and whiskered lips are seen in both ; but our species is 

 larger than V. mystacinus, while the thumb is smaller; the tail is shorter, 

 and calcaneum more produced. 



It differs also in color, V. mystacinus being a grayish brown ; V. nitidus a 

 reddish brown. 



MEASUREMENTS. 



Expanse 8*0 



Height of ear 0*5 



" " tragus 0*3 



Length of forearm 1''6 



" "tibia 0-5^ 



" " tail 1-1 



" "thumb 0-2 



" foot 0-3 



" " longest finger 0'2 



Habitat. California. 

 No. 1981. Monterey. W. Hatton. 



" 522—1665. Fort Steilacoom. Dr. Suckley, U. S. A. 

 " 523—1656 " " " " " 



" 524—1657 " " " •' 



" 52,5—1658 " " " " " 



In 1855, Major Le Conte, in the 7th Vol. Proc . Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 437, de- 

 scribed a bat from California under the name, — V. pallidus. 



The changes which have taken place in the classification of Cheiroptera of late 

 years and esptcially the greatly restricted sense in which the genus Vesperti- 

 lio as now received, is sufficient apology for the insertion of this bat under the 

 genus which I am about to propose. 



Akteozous, n. g. — Head rather large ; nose high, tapering, narrow ; snout 

 an<^ular, blunt ; nostrils apical, outer borders joining above in a transverse 

 line ; eyes large ; ears longer than head, not joined. Skull long, not de- 

 pressed, slightly crested at posterior part, tapering anteriorly. 



4 12 14 

 Dentition, m -, c-, in. -, c-, m-,=28. 



5 1 4 1 5 



Upper jaw. The sup. incisors large pointed, separated by a narrow space. 

 Canines well developed with a small basal internal cusp. No small premolar 

 posterior to canine, as in Lasiurus ; molars as in that genus. 



Lower jaw. Incisors trilobed, the two centrals placed anteriorly to laterals. 

 Canines with an acute basal cusp which nearly touches the second premolar. 

 The first premolar simple and smaller than the second. Molars not peculiar. 



This genus dift'ers from Vespertilio in the high and slender ."jnout ; the crested 

 and narrow skull ; the elevated broad ears, and in one incisor less in the upper 

 jaw, and two less in the lower. Indeed the latter fact is alone sufficient to 

 separate it, for although the incisors in the upper jaw as a general rule are 

 subject to considerable variation, a departure from the usual number in the 

 lower jaw is a matter of more significance. Antrozous is the only instance in 

 the extensive family of Vespertilionidse of such variation. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



Maxj 6th, 1862. 

 Dr. Le Conte in the Chair. 

 Sixteen members present. 



Mr. Cope stated that one of the few described species of North 

 American serpents not known to the zoologists of our country, the 

 CarpJioptis Harpesti of Dum. and Bib., had been recently discovered 

 in Texas. It belongs to the genus Virginia, of Baird and Girard. 



Maij inth, 1862. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Ninteen members present. 



3Iai/ 20t7i, 1862. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-seven members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication, and referred to 

 .Committees : 



Catalogue of the Fishes of Lower California, in the Museum of the 

 Smithsonian Institution, etc. Pt. III. By Theo. Gill. 



List of the Pseudo-neuroptera of Illinois, etc. By Benjamin D. 

 Walsh, M.D. 



Revision of the Gulls of North America. By Elliott Coues. 



Catalogue of Birds, collected by the North Pacific Exploring Expe- 

 dition, etc. By John Cassin. 



3Iay 27th, 1862. 

 Dr. Bridges, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-one members present. 



On Pteport of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published in the Proceedings : 



Catalogue of the FISHES of Lower California, in the Smithsonian Institntion, 

 collected by Mr. J. Xantns. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



PABT III. 



Family PBRCOIDjE (Cn\.) 



Subfamily SERRANIN^ (Sw.) Gill. 



Genus Brachyrhisus Gill. 



BkACHYRHINUS CREOLtJS Gill. 

 Synonymy. 

 Serranus creolus Cuv.et Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tome ii. p. 265. 

 " " Cuv. Regne Animal, ed. 111., Ichthyoloyie, pi. 8, fig. 1. 



The Brachyrhinus of Lower California is undistioguishable by me from the 

 B. creolus of the West Indies and South America. The proportions, number 

 1862.] 17, 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



of rays (D. IX — 19. A. III. 9,) and of scales (L. 1. 85 — 95,) and color, espe- 

 cially the four round violet dots, are the same in the fish of the Pacific Ocean 

 as in that of the Caribbean Sea; I am therefore compelled to regard the two 

 as identical. The Bracliyrhinus colonus (Sen-anus colonus Val.) of the Gallapagos 

 Islands appears to differ in color, the number of the rays and the size of the 

 scales. 



Genus Epinephelcs (Bloch) Gill. 



Epinephelus sellicauda Gill. 



Theheightequals about three tenths (-29) of the total length. The head forms 

 considerably more than a third (-36) of the same length; it is wholly covered 

 with small, closely appressed scales, the only naked external parts being the 

 supramaxillary bones and lips. The eye in diameter equals a sixth of the 

 head's length, and is distant more than a fourth ('S-J) from the snout. The 

 preoperculum is oblique and scarcely denticulated along its upper half, vertical 

 and more coarsely denticulated towards the angle and thence decurved forwards. 

 There are three opercular spines, the upper of which is concealed. The caudal 

 enters nearly five times and a half (18) in the length and nearly equals the 

 pectoral fins. The venirals scarcely equal a seventh ('14) of the length. 



D. XI. 17. A. III. 8. 



Tue color is purplish brown, sparsely covered with white spots which extend 

 more or less on the dorsal, anal, pectoral, and ventral fins. The caudal pe- 

 duncle has a black saddle-like spot behind the dorsal fin. The posterior mar- 

 gins of the pectoral and external margins of the ventrals have white lines. The 

 spinous dorsal has the incised memt'rane hyaline bordered below by a linear 

 black band. The caudal is immaculate. 



The species is perhaps most nearly allieJ to the E. awoara {Serramis awoara 

 Fauna Japonica) of Japan, and the Epinephelus niveatus (Serranus niveafus C.V.) 

 of the West Indies. 



Genus Dermatolepis Gill. 

 This genus is very closely related to Lioperca, of which the Serranus inermis 

 Val. of the Caribbean Sea, is the type. It differs from Lioperca by the absence 

 of the canine teeth on each side of the front of the upper jaw ^ by the little increase 

 in size of the teeth of the posterior rows near the symphisis, the short and 

 bluntly rounded pectoral fins, the regular increase of the three small anal 

 spines, and the obsolescence of the upper spinifbrm process which is concealed 

 in the skin. The teeth are in broad bands in front, separated by a narrow 

 smooth symphiseal area, and become recumbent backwards and inwards in the 

 internal rows. The usual trilobation (not spines) of the operculum is indis- 

 tinct. 



Dermatolepis punctatcs Gill. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences of Phila., vol. xiii. 18C1, p. 54. 

 One specimen stuffed is in the museum. 



Subfamily RHYPTICm.E Gill. 

 Genus Rhypticus Cuv. 

 Rhypticcs xanti Gill. 

 The greatest height equals a fourth or more of the total length. The head 

 to the end of the opercular membrane equals three-tenths (-30^) and projects 

 considerably beyond the spine ('OI;!;) its height behind the eyes enters nearly 

 five times and a half (18) in the total length, and the greatest height at the nape 

 more than five times (■21.) The eye is moderately small, its diameter (-4) being 

 more than half as long as the snout. The pectoral fin enters more than tJ.] times 

 (=-15.J) in the total length. 

 D. III. 24. A. 16. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



The color is a very dark purplish brown, darker on the fins and on the trunk, 

 irregularly mottled with lighter brown spots. 



Two specimens of this species are in the collection, one thirteen inches and 

 a half long, and the other little more than fire inches long. In color it most 

 resembles the Rhypticus nigripinnis (Gill) from Panama, but that has only two 

 dorsal spines, and might therefore perhaps more properly be referred to the 

 genus Promicropterus. I dedicate it to Mr. Xantus, who has made the magnifi- 

 cent collection, of which a part is here described. 



Rhypticus maculatus Gill. 

 The greatest height equals a quarter of the total length. The head, exclu- 

 sive of the membrane, forms 27-100, and inclusive of it 29-100 of the length ; 

 the height immediately behind the eyes equals 13-100, and at the nape 18-100 

 of the same. The eye of the single small specimen in the collection has a diame- 

 ter longer than the snout, and equal to a fifth of the head's extreme length. 

 The pectoral fin equals a sixth of the total length, 

 D. III. 24. 



The color is reddish brown on the body and head, thickly covered with yel- 

 lowish spots about as large as the pupil of the eye. The fins are blackish 

 and immaculate, except the caudal, which is dotted on its basal half. 

 A single specimen, less than two inches and three quarters long, was <;ol- 

 • lected. 



Family CHILODIPTEROIDjE Bleeker. 



Genus Amia Gronovius. 

 Amia ketrosella Gill. 



The greatest height exceeds a quarter (-28) of the total length : of that 

 length the head forms more than three-tenths ('31.) The diameter of the orbit 

 enters three times and a half ('09) in the head's length, and the snout four 

 times and-a half (07.) The hinder margin of the preoperculum is finely den- 

 ticulated ; the crest entire. The spinous dorsal, at the third spine, has 

 a height equal to an eighth ("12) of the total length, and the soft a sixtd ('17) 

 of the same. The caudal fin enters four times and a half (-23 ;) the pecto- 

 ral fin equals a fifth (-19) and the ventral a sixth (-16) of the length. 



D. VI. I. 9. A. II. 8. C. 4. I. 8. 7. I. 3. P. 2. 10. V. I. 5. 

 2 



Scales 25—, 

 8 



The color is reddish yellow, minutely dotted with black, with a black spot 

 on the operculum, another on the end of the caudal peduncle, and a vertical 

 band below the soft dorsal fin. The unpaired fins are more or less thickly punc- 

 tulated.with black. 



This species is related to Amia dovii {Apogon dovii Gthr.,) but the 

 saddle-like band under the second dorsal fin at once distinguishes it it ; is also 

 closely allied to A. maculata (^Monoprion maculatus Poey.) 



Family /SP.liJO/Z^^Cuv. Gill. 

 Subfamily LUTJANIN^ Gill. 

 Lutjanus novemfasciatus Gill. 

 The greatest height exceeds a quarter of the extreme length. The head 

 forms rather more than three-tenths of the same, (-31 :) the snout enters three 

 times and a half (-09) in the head's length,'and the diameter of the eye about 

 four times and a half (•07.) The teeth are in a longitudinal band on the 

 tongue. The anterior nostril has a membraneous flap or lid behind. The pre- 

 operculum has a shallow emargination ; the interoperculum a blunt trihedral 

 1862,] 




252 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tubercle. The fourth dorsal spine equals a tenth of the total length and is a 

 quarter longer than the ninth, which is shorter than the tenth. The second 

 anal spine is strongest and rather larger than the ninth dorsal one. The cau- 

 dal is nearly truncate when expanded, and forms a fifth of the total length. 

 The pectoral and ventral fins are equal, and contained about five times and a 

 half in the length. 



D.X. 13-14. A. III. 8. 

 7 



Scales 48—. 

 18 



The color is purplish brown, lighter at the centres of the scales, and with 

 nine faint vertical bands, the second under the front of the dorsal, the sixth 

 under the union of the spinous and soft parts, and the last behind the dorsal. 

 The margin of the dorsal and caudal is dark. The front of the soft anal near 

 the angle white ; the base of the pectoral dark. 



Subfamily HOPLOPAGRIN^ Gill. 

 Genus Hoplopagrcs Gill. 

 Proc. Academy of Nat. Sciences of Phila., 1861, p. 78. 



Body oblong-ovate, compressed, with the caudal peduncle short, covered 

 with moderate or rather large oblique scales, similar to those of the typical 

 Sparoids and arranged in longitudinal rows parallel with the lateral line. 

 Head moderate, with the profile not much arched but declining rapidly down- 

 wards. The operculum and suboperculura are covered with large scales ; the 

 cheeks with about five rows of scales ; the limb of the preoperculum naked. 

 The preorbital bone is very high, and its hinder margin concealed. The pre- 

 operculum is notched above its angle for the reception of a knob of the inter- 

 opercular bone. Its ascending margin and angle are finely pectinated, as is 

 also the suprascapular bone. The operculum is obtusely biangulated behind. 

 Mouth of normal size; the ascending branches of the intermaxillaries are 

 shorter than the horizontal ones. Teeth on the jaws &nA front of the vomer ; 

 there are four robust but blunt canines in each jaw, near the symphisis in ati 

 anterior row ; another row of obtusely conical ones, behind in which, in the 

 upper jaw, is at least one row of smaller molar or fusiform ones. Behind the 

 row of conical ones of the lower jaw, there is, on each side of the median line, 

 about one molar. There are also about three short and obtusely conical molars 

 on the front of the vomer. Nostrils distant; the posterior are elongated oval 

 slits in front of the eyes; the anterior are tubular and situated at the anterior 

 margin of the snout. Branchiostegal rays five on each side. Dorsal fin with 

 a deep notch between its spinous and soft portions ; the anterior part with ten 

 spines. Anal fin wth three moderate but stout spines, the second of which is 

 largest. Caudal fin emarginated. Pectoral fins subfalcate and acuminate. 

 Ventral fins acuminate, with its axillar scales well developed. 



The species for which we have framed the genus above described, is one of 

 the most interesting that has been for some time made known. It furnishes 

 additional evidence of the slight value of the presence or absence of teeth on 

 the palatine arch as a character for distinguishing families, and at the same 

 time it confirms the propriety of approximating the Sparoids and the Percoids, 

 or at least the Latjaninae. 



At first sight the observer wonld be inclined to refer the type of the new 

 group to the genus Diacope of Cuvier, or Genyoroge of Cantor, or to Mesoprion 

 of Guvier. There is indeed no essential difference in external form or appear- 

 ance between those several genera. There is the same nudity of the superior 

 surface of the head and preorbital region : the same sinus above the angle of 

 the preoperculum, and the corresponding knob of the interoperculum ; the same 

 serration of the preoperculum and suprascapular; the same two blunt spinous 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 258 



processes of the operculum ; the same form and disposition of the fins, and 

 the same structure of the scales. Almost the only external difference that 

 would be esteemed as of more than specific value relates to the position and form 

 of the nostrils. And yet the fish now to be described does not bel.ong to the 

 same family as Diacope or Genyoroge, if the Sparoids and Percoids are regarded 

 as being distinct families simply on account of dentition. For the present 

 species is found, on further investigation, to be provided with teeth like those ot 

 the Sparine subfamily of the Sparoids, while Diacope ov Genyoroge has teeth 

 somewhat like Serranus, and has been by all naturalists referred to the family 

 of Percoids and placed near Serranus. The number of branchiostegal rays is 

 also less than that of the Lutjanine genus. 



HoPLOPAGEUS GOENTHERII Gill. 



Proc. Academy of Nat. Sciences of Phila., vol. 1861, p. 78. 



The greatest height equals a third ("35) of the extreme length. The head 

 forms three-tenths (-30) of the same. The profile is scarcely curved ; the fore- 

 head slightly gibbous. The snout equals nearly half ('HJ) of the head's 

 length ; the height of the suborbital from the eye to the angle of the mouth is 

 less than a third of the same ('09. ) The diameter of the orbit equals a fifth of 

 the head's length. The pos,terior nostril tube is an elliptical aperture. The 

 preopercular sinus is semicircular; the inleropercular knob moderate and 

 oblique. The spine of the dorsal increases in a curve to the fourth spine, 

 which equals an eighth of the total length, and is more than twice as long as 

 the last two (^-OSJ.) The anal spines regularly increase, the first being con- 

 tained seven times and a half (-04) in the head's length, while the second is nearly 

 and the third quite twice as long as the first. The caudal fin is little emargi- 

 nated, and the angles nearly rectangular; the external rays equal about -22 and 

 the median about -18 of the total length. The pectoral fins are produced and 

 pointed as usual, and nearly equal three-tenths of the length (-28,) the ventrals 

 equal a fifth (-20.) The rows of scales above the lateral line are parallel with 

 it, and those below nearly straight and longitudinal. 



D. X. 14. A. III. 9. C. 2. 1.8. 7. I. 1. P. 2. 15. V. I 5. 

 8 4 



Scales 43 (3)— — 

 17 6 



The color of the stuffed specimen is uniform purplish brown. 



I dedicate the fine species to the excellent Giinther in token of appreciation. 



Subfamily PRISTIPOilATIN^ Gill. 



Genus H/Emulon Cuvier. 



This genus as here adopted is restricted to Pristipomatinae, with large mouths, 

 the spinous dorsal increasing in a curved line towards the third, fourth or fifth 

 spines and thence gradually decreasing, and the scales of moderate size, 

 arranged in more or less oblique rows, so that the nuclei or the spots on each 

 scale form interrupted lines that tend obliquely upwards and form acute angles 

 with the lateral line. The anal spines are robust, and the second is generally 

 largest. The genus, however, requires still further restriction. 



H^MULON SCUDDERII Gill. 



The greatest height enters less than three times and a half (-28) in the total 

 length, and is little greater than the length of the head (= -27.) The diameter 

 of the eye equals a third of the head's length, and is nearly as long as the 

 snout. The supramaxillary bones reach behind nearly to the vertical of the 

 pupil. The teeth of the front row in each jaw are strongly and abruptly curved. 

 The preoperculum is emarginated behind and is pectinated, especially at the 

 angle. The dorsal fin increases in a curve to the fourth spine, which is half as 



1862.] 




25-i PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Jong as the body beneath, (-14,) and two and a third times as long as the 

 eleventh spine. The second anal spine is longest and nearly equals the fourth 

 dorsal one. The caudal forma more thau a fifth (-22) of the length, and the 

 pectoral equals a fifth (-20.) 



1 6 



D. XI. I. 16. A. nr. 7 — . Scales 52 — . 



1 14 



The color is greenish silvery, with faint oblique lines formed by the central 

 dots on the scales above the lateral line, and less oblique ones below. There 

 are two lateral bands ; one from the snout over the eye to ihe end of the dorsal, 

 and the other from the back of the eye to an oblong spot on the caudal pe- 

 duncle. The fins are nearly colorless. The preoperculum has a blackish 

 brown spot behind partly concealed. 



I dedicate this species to Mr. Scudder, already favorably known as an Ento- 

 mologist, and now engaged in the study of Ilaniulon and the allied genera. 



H^MULON SEXFASCIATUS Gill. 



The greatest height is nearly equal to three-tenths (-29) of the extreme 

 length, and barely exceeds the head's length (=-28.) The diameter of the eye 

 nearlj' equals a tlaird of the latter length as well as the length of the snout. 

 The suprimaxillary bones reach behind nearly to the vertical from the front of 

 the pupil. The teeth of the external row in the upper jaw are strongly curved ; 

 those of the lower much less. The preoperculum is emarginated behind by the 

 production of its angle and is dentated. The dorsal fin is highest at its fourth 

 or longest spine, which nearly equals an eighth (-13) of the total length, and 

 its last spines are much abbreviated, the eleventh little exceeding a quarter of 

 the fourth (■C3J.) The second anal spine is as long or longer than the fourth 

 dorsal. The caudal and pectoral fins are nearly equal, and contained about 

 four and a half times (22 — 23) in the total length. 

 1 7 



D. XI. I. 16. A. III. 9—. Scales 50—. 



1 18 



The color is greyish-silver, with six broad bands on the body, W-\q first between 

 the nape and dorsal fin ; the second under the first five spines ; the fourth under 

 the last spines, and the sixth mostly behind the dorsal fin. 



H^MULON FLAVIGUTTATUS Gill. 



The greatest height does not much exceed a quarter of the extreme length, 

 (.27,) of which the head forms a quarter. The eye's diameter equals a quarter of 

 the head's length, and is less than the length of the snout. The supramaxillary 

 bones end undwr the front of the pupils. The preoperculum is little emar- 

 ginated behind and is pectinated. The fourth dorsal spine is longest, and 

 equals a ninth (-11) of the total length ; the eleventh is as long or longer than 

 the twelfth or second dorsal one, and equals a twentieth (-5) of the length. 

 The second anal spine equals an eleventh of the length. The caudal fin forms 

 scarcely a fifth of the length, and the pectoral enters four times and a half in 

 the same. 



D. XI. I. 16. A. III. 10. 

 7 



Scales 53 — . 

 16 



The color is greyish, with sulphur-colored spots in the centre of each scale, 

 forming above the lateral line and below the spinous dorsal oblique lines tend- 

 ing upwards and backwards, and on the caudal peduncle longitudinal lines, 

 while under the lateral line they form longitudinal undulating lines. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2oO 



Genus Orthostcechcs* Gill. 



This genus is proposed for species which differ from JTmmulon by the arrange- 

 ment of the scales above as well as below the lateral line in longitudinal rows, 

 and the straight course of the anterior portion of the lateral line. In other 

 respects it resembles Iloemulon. The arrangement of the scales approximates 

 it rather to the genera Prislipoma {hasta) and Conodon of Cuvier, but the dorsal 

 and anal fins in both of those genera are scaleless. 



Oethostcechcs maculicauda Gill. 



The greatest height equals 28-100th3 of the total length, and the bead rather 

 more than a quarter. The diameter of the orbit equals a quarter (-07) of the 

 greatest height, and is less than the length of the snout (= -08.) The supra- 

 maxillary bone ends under or somewhat behind the front of the pupil. The 

 teeth of the external row are of moderate size and moderately curved. The 

 preoperculara is emarginated behind and pectinated or dentated. The fourth 

 dorsal spine equals or exceeds a ninth of the total length, and is scarcely shorter 

 than the third and fifth, while it is nearly three times as long as the twelfth, 

 which itself is shorter than that in front of the second dorsal. The second anal 

 spine equals a tenth of the total length. The caudal fin forms less than a fifth, 

 and the pectoral fin enters about four times and a third in the length. 

 D. XII. I. IG. A. III. 10. 

 7 



Scales 47 — . 

 16 



The color is purplish grey, with longitudinal lines on the body formed by 

 yellow spots in the centre of each scale, and with an oblong black spot on each 

 side of the end of the caudal peduncle. 



There are sometimes irregularities in the squamation. In the collection are 

 four varieties. 



1st. With all the rows straight. 



2d. With the third row below the lateral line in front decurved and continued, 

 as the fourth row, to the caudal. 



3d. With the second row below the lateral line in front bent upwards and 

 confluent with the first row. 



4th. With the first row above the lateral line in front bent upwards and con- 

 tinued as the second row to the caudal. 



These aberrations are caused by the displacement of the row-s. and corres- 

 pondingly affect the rows above or below. They exhibit the tendency to revert 

 to the arrangement of scales of Iloemulon. 



Genus MiCROLEriDOTCS Gill. 



The present is closely related to Hamulon and Orlhostcechus : it differs from 

 the latter by the arrangement of the scales above the lateral line in oblique 

 rows, and from both in the following characters : — 



Ist. The scales are small. 2d. The mouth is rather small. ?>^. The second 

 dorsal spine is at least half as long as the third, which equals or surpasses the 

 others. 4th. The anal spines are rather small and graduated, the third being 

 longest. 5th. The dorsal and anal fins are scaleless. In other respects the 

 genus resembles Ilcemulon. 



It differs from Prislipoma (kasla} by — 



1st. The small scales, obliquely arranged. 2d. The rather smaller mouth. 

 3d. The development of the anterior dorsal spines. 4th. The small and gradu- 

 ated anal spines. 



The name Microlepidotus is given to the genus in imitation of Ilemilepidoius. 



* OpSsf (straight) and o-ts/;^'^ (row.) 



1862.] 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



MiCROLEPIDOTUS INORNATUS Gill. 



The greatest height equals or nearly equals a quarter of the extreme length. 

 The head equals the height; the diameter of the orbit enters about four times 

 and a third (Oa?,) in the head's length, and the snout three times and a half, 

 (•07.) The supramaxillary bone ends under the posterior nostril. The teeth 

 of the outer row are moderate and curved. The preoperculum is little emargi- 

 nated behind, and is pectinated as usual. The first dorsal spine is weak, and 

 not half as long as the second; tlie second spine is two-thirds as long as the third; 

 the latter equals a tenth of the length, and is about as long as the fourth and 

 fifth ; the rest decrease towards the thirteenth, which is half as long as the 

 second spine. The third anal spine is largest ; its length does not equal half 

 that of the third dorsal spine (=042.) '^^^ caudal fin scarcely forms a fifth 

 of the length ('IS), and equals the length of the pectoral. 



D.XIII. I. 15. A. III. 12. 

 9 



Scales* 80—85 — . 

 23 



The scales of the lateral line behind are as large as the others and as much 

 exposed. The color is brownish, tinged with a golden hue. 



Genus Genytremcs Gill. 



This genus is proposed for the Pristipoma bilineatum Cuv. et Val., the species 

 described below and the P. melanopterum^ which are the only ones that I am 

 able to positively refer to the genus. They differ from the Anisotremi by the 

 less elevated body, depressed nape, the dorso-ocular region being incurved, 

 the oblique snout, the more rapid increase in width of the pharyngeal bones 

 behind and the pattern of coloration. 



The Pristipoma bicolor of Castelnau, which is supposed by Dr. Giinther to be, 

 perhaps, "a variety only" of P. Mc^a«o/j<«-«OT, " or the typeof the species, but 

 with the coloration made from life, ' appears to me to be a typical AnisotreTmu, 

 alike distinguished as such by form and pattern of color. 



The Dlayramma cacifrons Cuv. appears to represent a genus separated from 

 Genytremiis by the absence of a chin groove, the low preorbital bones, decurved 

 snout and the presence of thirteen dorsal spines, which less rapidly decrease 

 in length. The genus may be called Gcnya(remus.\ 



Genytremus interruptus Gill. J 

 This species is so closely allied to the G. bilineatus that it might be even 

 considered as a variety, but it appears to differ by the steel blue color of the 

 back and the discontinuance of the lateral band a short distance before the 

 spot on the tail ; at its end, the band is bounded below by the lateral line. In 

 other respects, the two species are so similar that a detailed description would be 

 only a repetition of that of G. bilineatus^ and is not necessary in the present paper. 



Family MULLOID^E. 

 Genus Upeneus Cuvier. 

 Upeneus dentatus Gill. 

 The greatest height is less than a fifth ('18) of the extreme length. The 



* The number of rows of scales and not the number through which the lateral line 

 runs is counied. 



t The Prisiipomn can/harinum oC Jenyns is the type of another Pacific genus, distin- 

 guished by the form of the head, the form nf the fins and the squamation. The pre- 

 orbital region is oblique and very deep. The genus may be nanied Prislocanfharus. 



t Anisotremus tieniatus Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, Phda., vol. xiii, p. 107. 



Pristipoma rode Morris, Proc. Acad, Nat. Sciences, Phila. vol. 



Habitat. — Panama. 



This is another species closely allied to a West Indian fish, but is undoubtedly distinct. 



[May. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



head forms a quarter of the length, and its height at the nape equals a sixth 

 of same ; the snout is gradually decAved, and its length equals an eleventh 

 (•09) of the total ; the height of the preorbital bone at the angle of the mouth 

 equals two-thirds (0(5) the length of the snout. The diameter of the eye 

 nearly equals a third (-08) of the head's length. The barbels extend nearly 

 to the vertical of the preoperculum. The teeth are rather strong ; in the upper 

 jaw uniserial, in the lower biserial in front. The caudal fin forms more than a 

 fifth (-22) of the total length, and the pectoral fin equals a sixth of the same. 

 1 1 2 



D. VII. I. 7 -. A. I. 5 -. Scales 31 -. 



1 1 6 



The color is a bright pink or rose, with a broad red band extending from 

 the eye to the caudal fin, and suffusing the caudal itself. 



This species is as closely related to the Upeneus flavivittatus (Poey) of the 

 Caribbean Sea as any other species, but differs widely in dentition as well in 

 the size of the scales, &c. 



Three specimens, nearly four inches long, are in the collection. 



Family SCLEXOID.E (Cuv.) Gthr. 



Subfamily SCl^NIN^ (Bon.) Gill. 



Umbrina dorsalis Gill. 



The greatest height equals three-tenths ('30) of the extreme length. The 



head forms a quarter (-25) of the length and declines nearly in a straight line : 



at the vertical of the preopercular angle its height equals -22, and at the pupil 



•17 of the total length. The diameter of the eye equals a third of the head's 



length, aud that of the snout a quarter. The barbel is very short and thick. 



The preopercular teeth behind are small and distant. 



The spinous dorsal is convex; the second anal spine strong and equal to a tenth 

 of the total length. The caudal fin is subtruncated, and forms a fifth of the 

 length. The pectoral enters six times and two-thirds ("15) and ventral five 

 times and a half ("18) in the same length. 

 D. X. I. 33. A. II. 7. 



8 

 Scales 56 — . 

 14 

 The color is silvery, tinged on the back with rose. The upper half of the 

 dorsal fins are sometimes punctulated with black. 



Umbrina xanti Gill, 



The height is rather less than a quarter (-23) of the total length. The length 

 of the head equals the greatest height, and is nearly a quarter greater than the 

 height at the preopercular angle (=:-18) and twice that at the pupil (•12). The 

 diameter of tlie orbit nearly equals a third (-07) of the head's length, while 

 the snout enters about four times and a half ("05) in the same. The barbel is 

 short and moderately thick. The teeth of the preoperculum behind small and 

 distant. The spinous dorsal is rather angular; the second anal spine not 

 robust and equalling an eleventh (09) of the total length. The caudal enters 

 five times and a half in the length ; and its margin is nearly truncated. The 

 pectoral fin rather exceeds an eighth ("13) and the ventral a seventh (-15) of 

 the length. 



D. X. I. 28. A. 11. 6. 

 7 



Scales 51 — . 

 12 



The color is silvery, tinged with purplish on the back, and with faint oblique 



1862.] 




258 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



lines running upwards and backwards. The first dorsal is generally more or 

 less puuctulated with black. « 



Many specimens were obtained. The species is, perhaps, most nearly re- 

 lated to the v. broussoneitii (Cuv. et Val.) of the West Indies, but dififers widely 

 in color, size of the scales, &c. 



A species of Sciaenoid of California has been described by Dr. Girard as 

 Umbrina undidata. I have not been able to examine the species, the only 

 specimen having been lent to Mr, Scudder, of the Cambridge Zoological Mu- 

 seum, who is now engaged in the study of Ilamulon and the related genera. I 

 am unable to judge, from the description of Girard, to what this species is 

 most nearly related. On account of the presence of a single spine and nine 

 rays in the anal fin, it was formerly referred to Menticirrhus, but if Girard is 

 correct in describing the caudal fin as "posteriorly subtruncated," it can 

 scarcely belong to that genus. Girard states that " a small spine is placed be- 

 tween the two dorsal fins, and a similar one at the anterior margin of the 

 second dorsal," and attributes "XL" spines to the first dorsal. Doubtless the 

 membrane had been simply torn from the " small spine," and it is possible that 

 he included the spine of the second dorsal as the eleventh. He must certainly 

 be mistaken when he attributes only four (IV.; IV.) branchiostegal rays to the 

 species. The color resembles that of Umbrina Xanli. 



Family POLYNEMATOID^^ Bleeker. 



Trichidion approximans Gill. 



Proc. of the Academy of Nat. Sciences of Phila., toI. xiii. p. 275. 

 Polynemus approximans Lay and Bennett, Beechey's Voyage to the Pacific, 



Zoology, p. 57. 

 Polynemus xanthonemus? Gunihcr, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, 

 &c., vol. ii. p. 325. 

 Many specimens were collected. 



Family NEMATISTIOIDJJ] Gill. 

 Genus Nematistius Gill. 



Body oblong or rather elongated, compressed, regularly diminishing in height 

 towards the caudal ; the caudal peduncle is slender but robust. Scales cycloid 

 and small, but very conspicuous, and arranged in moderately oblique rows 

 above and less oblique ones below. Lateral line simple and unarmed, scarcely 

 convex before and not angulated. Head little longer than high, compressed 

 and trenchant above, with the profile strongly decnrved from the dorsal fin to 

 the eyes, and with the snout oblique. Eyes in the anterior half of the head, 

 near the snout and the profile. Nostrils double, in front of the eyes. Sub- 

 orbital bones low. Opercula unarmed. Mouth rather large; the cleft very oblique 

 and continued under the eyes. Teeth villiform and small, especially on the 

 vomer and palatine bones. Branchiostegal rays six. Dorsal fins two, fold- 

 ing in a deep sheath; the first with eight filamentous spines; the 

 second low and elongated. Anal fin low and oblong, shorter than the second 

 dorsal and with one spine. Caudal fin forked and acutely lobed. Pectoral 

 fins acuminated. Ventral fins inserted under the bases of the pectorals ; each 

 with a long, slender, compressed spine contiguous to the first ray and with 

 six rai/s, the internal of which is com})ound, and has several contiguous branches 

 nearly or quite distinct. 



This very remarkable genus may be most aptly compared to Coryphcena. A 

 more vivid idea of its physiognomy can be obtained by a comparison with the 

 Coryphcena hippuris ; if that species was somewhat abbreviated, the eye placed 

 over the posterior half of the cleft of the mouth and nearer the profile, the 

 single dorsal replaced by two, the first commencing above the pectoral and 

 1862.] 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



with eight filamentous spines, and the pectoral fin elongated, it would resemble 

 a N^ematiiiius. 



The peculiar modification of the ventral fins reminds the naturalist of the 

 genus Lampris^ the tvpe of a peculiar family, but in other respects it is little 

 related. On account of this modification of the ventral fins, as well as the 

 development of the dorsal fins and the form, it appears expedient to consider 

 it as the type of a distinct family, allied to the Carangoids and Coryphaenoids. 



Nematistius pectoralis Gill. 



The greatest height equals or exceeds a quarter of the length from the snout 

 to the end of the median caudal rays. The head nearly equals the height, and the 

 height at the nape is not much less (-22 — -24.) The direct distance between 

 the orbits equals a third of the head's length ; the orbit has a diameter equal 

 to a fourth of the same length, is distant from the horizon of the forehead half 

 a diameter, and from that of the snout little more than a diameter. The height 

 of the suborbital bone equals a third of the diameter. The origin of the anal 

 fin is nearly equidistant from the throat and the end of the caudal. The pec- 

 toral equals about three-tenths of the length and is nearly twice as long as the 

 ventrals. The median rays of the caudal fin equal the length of the snout and 

 quarter that of the longest. 



D. VIII. I. 26. A. I. 15. P. I. 1. 14. V. I. 5—4. 



The color of a dried specimen is plumbeous on the back and operculum, and 

 silvery on the sides of the head as well as body. The dorsal filaments are 

 -black; the lower half of the pectoral fin is also blackish. 



The following table of measurements is taken from the dried specimen, the 

 only one obtained. It has been registered as No. 2421. 



Length from snout to end of median caudal rays (16 inches) 100. Body — 

 greatest height 26. Height behind dorsal and anal -09. Height of caudal pe- 

 duncle -06. Length of caudal peduncle 'll. 



Head — Length laterally 24. Height at nape 22. Width between orbits 8^. 

 Length of snout 6j. Height of suborbital bone 2. 



Eye — Diameter 6. Distance from profile 3. 



Dorsal (spinous) — Length of first spine 6J. Length of second spine 31. 

 Length of third spine 55. Length of fourth spine 53. Length of fifth spine 52. 

 Length of sixth spine 41. Length of seventh spine 36. Length of eighth 

 spine 43. 



Caudal — Length of median rays (^2. Length of longest rays 25. 



Pectoral — Length 31. 



Ventral— Length 16. 



Family CIRRHITOIDJE (Gray.) 



Subfamily CIRRHITINJ]] (Blkr.) Gill. 



Genus Cirrhitus Lac. 



ClRRHITUS RIVDLATUS Val. 



Voyage de la Venus, Zoologie, p. 309, pi. 3. fig. 1. Giinther, Catalogue of the 

 Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c., vol. ii. p. 519. Gill, Proc. Academy of 

 Nat. Sciences of Phila., &c., vol. xiv. 1862, p. 107. 

 A single stuffed specimen, fifteen inches long, was sent to the Institution by 



Mr. Xautus. 



ClRRHITUS BETAtJROS Gill. 



The greatest height exceeds a quarter ("27) of the extreme length, and the 

 head forms nearly a third ("32) of the same. The preoperculum is serrated 

 behind. In the small specimen now described, the diameter rf the orbit is 

 contained little more than three times and a half in the head's length and 

 equals the snout. The fourth dorsal spine is longest, and equals a ninth of 



1862.] 




260 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



the total length. The second anal spine fe largest, and equals the fourth 

 dorsal one ; the longest soft ray enters six times and two thirds in the total 

 length. The caudal fin is slightly emarginated and nearly equals a fifth of 

 the length. The produced pectoral ray rather exceeds a quarter of the length, 

 and the ventral fins enter five times and a half in the same. 

 1 



D. X. 11. A. III. 5 -. P. 6. VI. V. I. 5. 

 1 



The color is ivhitish on the body, blackish on the shoulders and from the 

 dorsal fin to the eyes, and with four complete, oblique, blacliish bands ; the 

 first under the middle of the spinous dorsal; the second under the last spine; 

 the third under the middle of the soft dorsal, and the fourth encircling the 

 caudal peduncle. The head has three lateral bands, one on the preorbital 

 region, a second on the cheek, and third on the posterior margin of the pre- 

 operculum. The operculum has a longitudinal oblong spot. The chin has 

 four spots forming the angles of a rhomb, and there is another one behind, on 

 the branchiostegal membrane near the margin. The .spinous dorsal is mar- 

 gined witli blackish, and the two bands beneath more or less ascend on it; 

 anal blackish. The caudal has a blackish B-shaped mark and a band at its 

 base divided by the lateral line. The pectoral is dusky, with a black spot at 

 its base nearly surrounded by a clear area, and separated from a spot in front 

 of the base. The ventrals are blackish, with nearly transparent sides and 

 margin. 



This species is very distinct, readily recognized by the color, and especially 

 the large mark on the caudal fin, — in allusion to which the name has been 

 given. It is, perhaps, most nearly allied to Cirrhitus aprinus. One specimen, 

 scarcely an inch and a half long, was obtained. 



Family SCOMBROIDjE (Cuv.) Gill. 



Subfamily SCOMBRIN^ 8wainson. 



Genus Scomber (L.) 



Scomber diego Ayres. 



Proc. California Academy Nat. Sciences, vol. i. p. 92. 



Three spejimens of a species which is doubtless identical with the one de- 

 scribed by Dr. Ayres, were obtained. 



Family CARANGOIDJE Blkr. 

 Subfamily CARANGIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus Trachurus (Raf.) 

 Trachurcs symmetricus Girard. 



Caranx symmetricus Ayres, Proc. California Academv of Nat. Sciences, pt. I, 



p. 62. 

 Trachurus trachurus pt. Gunther. 



After an examination of numerous specimens, I am unable to discover any 

 valid reasons for uniting the European, Japanese and Californian fislies in one. 

 They differ in the course of the lateral line, the comparative size of the pec- 

 toral, &c., and can be readily distinguished ai the first glance. The Californian 

 species has the flexure very abrupt and oblique, and the pectoral fin equal to 

 the length of the head before the preoperculum. The Tracliurus decUcis of the 

 Australian seas is not represented in the Smithsonian Collection, but I am dis- 

 posed to believe that that species may also be distinguished from the Japanese 

 species, to which it is most related. At another time I will again revert to 

 this subject. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



« 

 It may be remarked, that the Trachurus loops of Girard is a typical Caranz 

 of Bleeker, and nearly allied to a species previously placed by Girard in a genua 

 called by him " Carangus Girard." Dr. Giinther has called attention to the 

 discrepancy between Girard's diagnosis of Trachurus and that of Trachurus 

 boops. The name of Caranx hoops has been given by Cuvier and Valenciennes 

 to a Carangoid, but, as the species belong to different genera, the name of 

 Caranx boops may be retained for the Californian fish. A near ally is the com- 

 mon Caranx chrysos (Dekay) of the Atlantic coast. 



Genus Trachurops Gill. 



Trachdrops brachychirus Gill. 



This species is very closely related to the Trachurops crumenophthalmus of 

 the Atlantic, but appears to differ by the less length of the pectoral fins. The 

 description of form, &c. would be equally applicable for the two ; for the pre- 

 sent, therefore, the following formulae for the two specimens in the collection 

 and the annexed table of measurements are deemed sufficient. The tips of 

 the caudal lobes are broken in both specimens. 



D. VII. + I. I. 26. A. II. I. 22. 



Lateral acute plates 36, 37. 



Trachurops differs from Trachurus by the presence of scutellee only on the 

 hinder half of the lateral line. 



- Length to end of middle caudal rays (8 l-5th-8,) 100 (+ 14.) Body— Greatest 

 height 26-25. Distance of vertical of end of dorsal to end of median caudal 

 rays 16-16. 



Head— Greatest length 29-29 J. , Distance from snout to end of spine 28-28^, 

 Width of interorbital area -07. Length of snout 8-8|^. Length of opercu- 

 lum .07. 



Orbit — Diameter 9-9. 



Dorsal— Height of third spine 13-13. Height at longest ray 12-lU. 



Anal — Height at longest ray llJ-10. 



Caudal — Length of middle rays 7^. Length of external rays 21 -f- 4. 



Pectoral— Length 24-24. 



Ventral— Length 14-13. 



Genus Decapterus Bleeker. 



The genus Decapterus of Bleeker appears to be a natural and homogeneous 

 one, but at the same time embraces species which differ considerably in denti- 

 tion, and which may consequently be distributed among sections distinguished 

 by such differences. The dentition appears to be constant in the species and 

 to be at least of equal value with that which has induced naturalists to sub- 

 divide the analogous family of Clupeoids. 



The sections known to us are the following: 



EusTOMAToDus. Tccth ou the jaws (uniserial), vomer, palatine bones and 

 tongue. 



Decapterus muroadsi Blkr, D. kurroides Blkr. 



Decapterus verus. Teeth on the jaws (uniserial), vomer and palatine bones. 

 Tongue smooth. 



Decapterus kurra Blkr. 



Gymnepignathus. Teeth on the lower jaw (uniserial), vomer and palatine 

 bones. Tongue and upper jaw smooth. 

 Decapterus macrosoma Blkr. 



EvEPiGYMNUs. Teeth on the lower jaw (uniserial), and tongue. Upper jaw 

 and palate smooth. 



Decapterus hypodus Gill. 



1862.] 




262 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Decapterus hypodus Gill. 



The greatest height is less than a fifth (-18) of the total length. The head forms 

 a quarter of the same. The diameter of the orbit equals a quarter of the head's 

 length, and the snout enters three times and a third in the same. The lateral 

 line has a very slight sigmoidal flexure and is covered with very conspicuous 

 discoid scales; the lateral line is trifid on each scale, giving out an oblique pro- 

 cess above and another below. The teeth on the lower jaw are small and 

 uniserial; the tongue has a longitudinal narrow band. 



D. VII. I. 31—1. A. II. I. 26—1. 



Lateral line (70 + ) 30. 



The color above is greenish-blue ; the opercular spot small. 



Five specimens were obtained. It is, perhaps, most closely related to Decap- 

 terus macarellus, — the Caranx macarellus of Cuvier and Valenciennes, which 

 differs at least in proportions as well as the number of rays and plates of the 

 lateral line. The dentition has not been described, and the species is autop- 

 tically unknown to me. 



Blepharichthys crinitus Gill. 

 I have not been yet able to satisfy myself as to the specific distinction be- 

 tween representatives of this genus from widely separated places, and there- 

 fore prefer for the present to refer two specimens obtained by Mr. Xantus at 

 Cape St. Lucas to the species above named. 



Subfamily TRACHYNOTIN^ Gill. 

 Trachynotcs pampanus Cuv. et Val. 

 As in the case of Blepharichthys, I cannot give any positive characters to 

 distinguish the Atlantic and Californian representatives of Trachynotus from 

 each other. With Gunther, I believe that Bolhrolannus pampanus of Hulbrook 

 is the aged form of DoUodon carolinus, in which the teeth are lost. In the 

 specimen described by Dekay, said to have the " teeth so minute as scarcely 

 to be distinguished," I cannot distinguish even minute teeth. Trusting to the 

 American natuialists who had, I supposed, fully studied the species, I retained 

 in the Catalogue of the Fishes of the Eastern Coast the four species and three 

 genera admitted by them ; they are apparently, however, as stated by Giinther, 

 referrible to two species belonging to one genus. 



Note. — Yery young Caranffoids have a trispinous preoperculum, ani Alvmys a, 

 distinct spinous dorsal fin. Nanclerus and Serbia dussumieri are founded on 

 young specimens oi Nancrates. 



Description of a New Genus (GONIOBASIS) of the Family MELANID3: and 

 eighty-two new Species. 



BY ISAAC LEA 



Family MELANID^E. 



Genus GONIOBASIS.* 



Testa vel conica vel fusiformi. Apertura rhomboidea, inferut! subangulata. 

 Columella superne interdum incrassata. Operculum corneum, ad spiram 

 pertinens.f 



In my paper on the genus Trypanostoma, proposed by me, I mentioned the 



* Taiv/ot, angle, and ficto-K, base. 



t This genus may be divided into two groups, one embracing the conical, the other. 

 the fusiform species, and these into smooth, plicate, carinate, &c. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



importance of eliminating as many species as possible from Melania, which is 

 BO enormously extended as almost to prevent the possibility of finding suitable 

 names for its species. In the Proceedings of the Academy, December, 1861, I 

 stated that Professor Haldeman's genus Lithasia formed a very excellent group. 

 In working up a very large number of the family Melanidee, obtained from the 

 Southern and Western States, I have, notwithstanding the divisions which had 

 been made, found myself embarrassed with that form of aperture, which is 

 quite different from the auger-mouthed (Tryjmnostoma) species and the Lithasia, 

 to which latter they are most nearly allied. I mean those which usually, 

 though not always, have a slight thickening of the upper part of the columella 

 and no callus below, and wbich are also without the notch of Lithasia, although 

 subangular at base. In this subangular character they differ from JlelaniapTO- 

 per, which are round or loop-like at the base. For this group I propose the name 

 of Goniobasis* wbich will give us for our American Melanida the following 

 genera, all of them having spiral opercula: 



M.elama.\ Lam. Anculoi-a, Say. lo, Lea. Litkasia, Hald. Schizostoma, Lea. 

 Strephobasis, Lea. Trypanostoma, Lea. Goniobasis, Lea. Amnicola. Gould and 

 Hald. 



They may be known by 



Melania having a regular loop-form aperture. 



A7iculosa having a rounded aperture and a callous columella. 



To having a greater or less elongate channel or spout at the base. 



Lithasia having a callus on the columella above and below, and a notch at 

 the base. 



Schizostoma having a cut in the upper part of the outer lip. 



Strephobasis having a retrorse callus at base and usually a squarish aperture. 



Trypanostoma having an expanded outer lip and an auger-shaped aperture. 



Goniobasis having usually a subrhomboidal aperture, subangular at base and 

 without a channel. 



Amnicola% having a round mouth and no callus. 



GoxiOBASis osccLATA. — Testa laevi, pupseformi, subelevata, subcrassu, luteo- 

 fusca, quadrivittatil ; spira subelevata; suturis valde et irregulariter impressis ; 

 anfractibus septenis, convexiusculis ; apertura parva, constrict;!, subelliptica, 

 intus albida et vittata ; labro acuto ; columella albu, infiectu, ad basim contorta 

 et subangulata. 



Eab. — Coosa River, Alabama, E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Goniobasis Brcmbyi. — Testa Ijevi, attenuata, subtenui, cinerea, quadrivit- 

 tata; spira attenuata, ad apicem carinata, ; suturis valde impressis; anfracti- 

 bus instar octonis, convexiusculis ; apertura parva, subrhomboidea, intus 

 albida et quadrivittata ; labro acuto; columelhi inflecta, ad basim obtuse 

 angulata. 



Hab. — Alabama, Prof. Brumby. 



GoxiOBASis Gkosvexorii. — Testa Isevi, subattenuata, tenui, cornea. fulgidS, 

 evittata ; spira subattenuata, mucronatii, ad apicem carinatiip suturis regu- 

 lariter et valde impressis; anfractibus octonis, convexis; apertuYa parva, sub- 

 rotunda; intus albida; labro acuto, paulisper sinuoso ; columella iuflectu, 

 tenui et contorta. 



Ilah. — Fox River, Illinois, H. C. Grosvenor; and Quincy, Ohio, J. Clark. 



* Adams's Elimia takes in part of this genus. 



t Cuvier describes Melania as having long teiitacula, the eyes being on the exterioi 

 side about the third of the length. The eyes of MeUntia Viigmica, Say, are at the base 

 of short tentacula. I very much doubt if we have a single species in the United States 

 which pro|)erly belongs to this genus, which Cuvier considered amarula as the type and 

 Lamarck asperata as the type. 



X Amnicola, ahhough much like Paludina, is more nearly allied to the Melanida. The 

 operculum is spiral, and therefore very different in this character from Paludina. 



1862.] 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



GoNioBAsis PARVA, — Testii la3vi, conica, tenui, cornea, evittata : spird sub- 

 elevata, mucrotiata ; sutiiris impressis ; anfractibus septenis, planulatis ; aper- 

 tura parviuscula, intus albida, subrbomboidea ; labro acuto el sinuoso; colu- 

 mella inflecta et paulisper incrassata. 



Hah. — Georgia, Right Rev. Stephen Elliott, 



GoNioBASis SPiNELLA. — Tcsta IsBvi, valde attenuata, tenui, tenebroso-olivS, 

 evittata; spira valde elevata, mucronata ; suturis rfgulariter impressis; an- 

 fractibus instar novenis, planulatis; apertura parvissima, ovata, inttis albida ; 

 labro acuto, paulisper sinuoso ; columella inflecta et inferne paulisper in- 

 crassata. 



Hah. — Sycamore, Claiborne County, Tennessee, J. Lewis, M. D. 



GoNiOBASis EsTABRooKii. — Testti Isvi, conicil, subtcuui, rufo-comea, evittata; 

 spira attenuato-conica, mucronata ; suturis impressis; anfractibus denis, con- 

 vexiusculis ; apertura parviuscula, ovata, intus albida ; labro acuto, paulisper 

 sinuoso; columellii inflecta. 



Hah. — Knoxville, Tennessee, Prof. Estabrook. 



GoNiOBASis Prairiensis. — Testa laevi, attenuato-fusiformi, tenui, olivacea, 

 fulgida, quadrovittata; spira elevata, mucronata; suturis regulariter impres- 

 sis ; anfractibus novenis, planulatis; apertura submagna, subrbomboidea, 

 intus albida et quadrivittata; labro acuto et sinuoso; columella inflecta et 

 contort a. 



i7a6.— Big Prairie Creek, Alabama, E.R. Showalter, M. D. 



GoNioBASis Etowahensis. — Testa lasvi, conoidea, tenui, tenebrosa, bivitfata; 

 spira subelevata ; suturis impressis; anfractibus septenis, convexiusculis ; 

 apertura submagna, subrbomboidea, intus tenebrosa et latO bivittata ; labro 

 acuto et sinuoso ; columella inflecta et valde contorta. 



Hah. — Etowah River, Georgia, J. Posteli. 



Gomobasis Draytonii. — Testa laevi, conoidea, crassiuscula, tenebroso-cas- 

 taneu, evittata vel obsolete vittata; spira subelevata; suturis valde impressis; 

 anfractibus instar senis, convesis; apertura parva, ovatd, intus tenebroso- 

 fusca ; labro acuto, paulisper sinuoso ; columella valde inflecta et contorta. 



Hah. — Fort George, Oregon, J. Drayton ; also at Walla. 



Goniobasis tenebrovittata. — Testa laevi, elevato-conica, subtenui, flaves- 

 cente vel vittata vel evittata ; spira subelevata ; suturis paulisper impressis ; 

 anfractibus planulatis ; apertura subgrandi, subrbomboidea, intus albida; labro 

 acuto, paulisper sinuoso ; columella paulisper inflecta. 



Hah. — Coosa River, W. Spillman, M. D. 



Goniobasis Spillmanii. — Testa laevi, fusiformi, tenui, virido-cornea, fulgida, 

 evittata; spird obtuse conoidea; suturis linearibus ; anfractibus instar senis, 

 planulatis, infra suturis subimpressis ; apertura magna, rhomboidea, intus 

 diaphaua; labro acuto, paulisper sinuoso; columella paulisper inflectd et 

 tenui. J, 



Hah. — Tennessee River, W. Spillman, M. D. 



Goniobasis flava. — Testa laevi, obtuso-conica, subtenui, flavd, trivittatd ; 

 spira obtuso-conica; suturis valde impressis; anfractibus instar senis, con- 

 vexiusculis ; apertura parviuscula, ovata, intus alb^ et trivittata ; labro acuto, 

 paulisper sinuoso ; columelld incurv^, incrassata. 



Hah, — Benton County? Northwest Alabama, G. Hallenbeck. 



Goniobasis Anthonyi. — Testa lavi, obtuso-conic3, subtenui, micanti, tene- 

 broso-castanea, evittata; spird obtusa ; suturis impressis; anfractibus instar 

 senis, convexiusculis ; apertura subgrandi, elongato-rhombica, intus fusces- 

 cente ; labro acuto, ad marginem albidd et paulisper inspissatd ; columella 

 incurva et valde contorta. 



Hah. — Tennessee, J. G. Antbonj. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



■ GoNiOBASis Gabbiana. — Testa laevi, subfusiformi, subtenui, cornea, evittata ; 

 spira paulisper exertans, mucronata ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus instar 

 octonis. convesis, varicosis; apertura parviuscula, subrhomboidea, iutus albida ; 

 labro acuto, paulisper sinuoso ; columella incurva et contorta. 

 Hab. — Tennessee, Prof. G. Troost. Alabama, Prof. Tuomey. 



GoNiOBASis Bridgesiaxa. — Testa Isevi, fasiformi, subinSata, subtenui, meliea, 

 fvittata : spira obtuse conica, ad apicem carinata ; suturis linearibus; anfrac- 

 tibus instar septenis, planulatis ; apertura magca, subrhomboidea, intusalbida; 

 labro acuto, vix sinuoso ; columella subinflecta, interne et superne incrassati 

 et paulisper contorta. 



Hab. — Gahawba River, Alabama, E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



G0SIOBAS13 INTERCEDEXS. — Tcsta Isevi, fus'formi, subtenui, meliea, fulgida, 

 evittata; spird conoidea. mucronata, ad apicem carinata ; suturis linearibas; 

 anfractibus octonis, planulatis, varicosis ; apertura submagna, rhomboidea, 

 intus albida ; labro acuto, vis sinuoso : columella subinflecta, paulisper incras- 

 sata, inferne subrectd. 



Hab. — Cahawba River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter. M. D. 



GoNiOBASis Ohiexsis. — Testa laevi. conica, subtenui, evittata ; spira obtuse 

 conica. mucronata, ad apicem carinata ; suturis valde impressis : anfractibus 

 instar novenis, convesis; apertura parva, subrolunda, intus alba: labro acuto, 

 vix sinuoso ; columella inflecta, valde incrassata. 



Hab. — Yellow Springs, Ohio. 



GosioBASis cixerea. — Testa laevi, conoidea, tenui, cinerea, fulgida ; spira 

 obtuse conica. mucronata, ad apicem carinata : suturis valde impre;sis ; anfrac- 

 tibus octonis, convexiusculis ; apertuia submagna, subrhomboidea, intus 

 caeruieo-alba ; labro acuto, paulisper sinuoso; columella incurva ; paulisper 

 incrassata et purpurescente. 



Hab. — South Carolina, Professor L. Vaausem. 



GoxioBASis Yaxcxemii. — Testa laevi, fusiform!, subcrassa, tenebroso-cornea ; 

 spira obtusti conoidea; suturis impressis: anfractibus septenis, subconvexis; 

 apertura magna, subrhomboidea, intus albida vel purpurea ; labro acuto, pau- 

 lisper sinuoso ; columella incurva. superne et inferne iacrKSsata. 



Hah. — Xorth Fork of the Holston River, Virginia, Prof. L. Vacuxem. 



GoxiOBASis Spartexburgessis. — Testa laevi, fusiformi, subtenui, virido-cornea. 

 fulgida, vittata vel evittata ; spira acntfe conica, ad apicem carinata : suturis 

 impressis: anfractibus octonis, planulatis; apertura siibmagna, elongato-rhom- 

 boidea, intus albida ; labro acuto, vix sinuoso ; columella paulisper incurvi, 

 infernfe incrassata. 



Hah. — Spartenburg District, S. Carolina. Prof. L. Vanuxem. Marietta. Ohio, 

 Dr. Hildreth. Wabash River, Indiana, H. C. Grosvenor. 



Goxioeasis aukicoma. — Testa laevi, fusiformi, subtenui, meliea. vittata : spira 

 valde obtusa ; suturis linearlbus ; anfractibus quinis. vix convexis ; apertnrS 

 pergrandi, suuruoujuyldca, iutus Savescente ; labro acuto, vix sinuoso ; colu- 

 mella incurva, paulisper incrassata. 



Hab. — Tennessee River, W. Spillman, M. D. 



Goxioeasis Georgiaxa. — Testa laevi, fusiformi, inflata, subcrassa, lutea. ful- 

 gida, vittata ; spira valde obtusa ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus quinis, con- 

 vexis ; apertura grandi, subrhomboidea, intus albida et viitata ; labro acuto, 

 recto; columella incurva, incrassata, parum contorta. 



Hab. — Xorth Georgia. 



Goxioeasis Vacxiaxa. — Testa Ijevi, fusiformi. subtenui, viridi ; spirit vald!^ 

 obtusa; suturis parum impressis; anfractibus quinis, supen.e planulatis ei 



1862.] 18 




266 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



cariaatis ; apertura pergraadi, lato-rhomboidea ; labro acuto, recto ; coIh- 

 mella parum incurva. 



Hal. — Coosa River, Alabama, Prof. Brumby. 



GoNioBASis Whitei. — Testa laevi, fusiformi, crassa, valdfe inflata, luteo-fusca, 

 fulgida trivittata ; spira valdfe obtusa ; suturis parum impressis ; anfractibus 

 quinis, supern^ planulatis, ultimo ventricoso; apertura pergrandi, lato-rhom- 

 boidea ; labro acuto, recto ; columella incurva, incrassata et contorta. 



Ilab. — Georgia, Rev. G. White. 



GoNiOBASis BiNNEYiANA. — Testa laevi, obtuso-fusiformi. subtenui, valde inflata, 

 tenebroso-oliva, obsolete vittata ; spira depressa; suturis impressis ; anfractibus 

 quinis, superne planulatis, ultimo ventricoso; apertura pergrandi, subovata, 

 intus tenebrosa ; labro acuto, parum sinuoso ; columelhl incrassata, ad basim 

 Tuaculata. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama, W. Spillman, M. D. 



GoNioBASis TuoMEYi. — Testa laevi, fusiformi, crassiuscula,luteo-oltva, vittata. 

 vel evittata; spira obtuso-conica, ad apicem minute plicata ; suturis impressis ; 

 anfractibus insiar senis, superne planulatis, ultimo subventricoso : apertura 

 grandi, rhomboidea, intus albida ; labro acuto, parum sinuoso ; columella 

 incrassata, incurva et contortri. 



Hab. — North Alabama, Prof. M. Tuomey. 



GoNioBASis FABALis. — Testa laBvi, elliptica, crassa, lutea, quadro-vittata ; 

 spira valdfe obtusa; suturis irregulariter impressis; anfractibus quaternis, 

 supernfe convexiusculis, ultimo pergrandi ; apertura magna, subrhomboidea, 

 intus albida et vittata ; labro acuto, vix sinuoso ; columella inferne et supern^ 

 incrassata. 



Hab. — Tennessee River, W. Spillman, M. D. 



GoNioBASis GiBBERosA. — Tcsta Iffivi, subfusiformi, crassa, pallido-castanea vel 

 rufo-castanea, vittata. vel evittata ; spira obtusa ; suturis irregulariter impressis; 

 anfractibus gibberosis, supernfe convexiusculis, ultimo pergrandi, apertura per- 

 grandi, rhomboidea, intus alba; labro acuto, sinuoso; columella ineurva, 

 supern^ et infernfe incrassata. 



H^zZ*.— Alabama River, E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



GoNioBASis Lyonii. — Tcsta plicata, superne striata et ad apicem carinata, 

 luteola, subtenui, valdfe exerta ; spira attenuata, mucronata ; suturis irregu- 

 lariter impressis ; anfractibus novenis, convexiusculis ; apertura parviuscula, 

 subrhomboidea, intus albida ; labro acuto, sinuoso ; columella incurva, incras- 

 sata, parum contorta. 



Hab. — Grayson County, Kentucky, S. S. Lyon. 



GoNiOBASis Ptbasii. — Testa plicata, valde exerta, luteola, tenui, vittata ; spira 

 attenuata, mucronata; suturis impressis; anfractibus septenis, planulatis; 

 apertura, ovato-rhomboidea, intus albida et vittata; labro acuto, sinuoso ; colu- 

 mella paulisper incurva, parum incrassata et contoi'ta. 



Hah. — Tusoumbia, Alabama, B. Pybas. 



GONIOBASIS DuTTONii. — Testa plicata, conoidea, dilute rufo-lutea, crassa, 

 bivittata ; spira conoidea ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus instar 

 septenis, subconvexis ; apertura ovato-rhomboidea, intus alba et lato-vittatit ; 

 labro acuto, sinuoso ; columella incurva, incrassata et valde contorta. 



Hab. — Maurey County, Tennesse, T. R Dutton. Grayson County, Kentucky, 

 S.S.Lyon. 



Goniobasis Doolyensis. — Testa plicata, subcylindracea, tenebroso-cornea vel 

 subsinerea, tenui, evittata; spira atteuuata ; suturis irregulariter impressis; 

 anfractibus insiar novenis, convexiusculis, apertura parva. ovato-rhomboideil, 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



intus albida ; labro acuto. sinuoso ; columella valde incui'va, in medio impress^ 

 et valde contorta. " 



Hab. — Tennessee, Prof. Troost. Near Vienna, Dooly County, Georgia, in a 

 small stream tributary to Flint River, Rev. G. White. 



GoxiOBASis YiEXNAENSis. — Testii plicata, subfusiformi, olivacea, subieaui, 

 evittata : spira regulariter conica ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfi'actibas 

 septenis, planulatis ; apertura subgrandi, rhomboidea, intu3 ca;ruleo-alba ; 

 labro acuto, sinuoso ; columella incurva, infernfe incrassata, parum contorta. 



Hab. — Near Vienna, Dooly County, Georgia, in a small stream tributary to 

 Flint River, Rev. G. White. 



GoKioBASis STREXUA. — Testa plicata, subfusiformi, fusco-olivacea, subtenui. 

 evittata ; spira subelevata ; suturis valde impressis ; anfi-actibus instar eep- 

 tenis, planulatis : apertura subgrandi, ovato-rhomboidea, intus albida : labro 

 acuto, subsinuoso ; columella incurva et contorta. 



Hab. — Benton County? Northwest Alabama, G. Hallenbeck. 



GoxioEASis SPARCS. — Testa plicata. subattenuata, pallido-flavescente, sub- 

 crassa, evittata ; spira attenuata, mucronata ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; 

 anfractibus octonis, convexiusculis ; apertura submagna, ovato-rhomboidei, 

 intus alba ; labro acuto, sinuoso ; columella parum incurva, supern^ lutea. 

 infern^ alba, contorta. 



Hab. — Tennessee, Dr. Currey and Prof. Lindsley. 



GoxioEASis DiFFiciLis. — Testii plicata, subattenuata, tenebroso-oliva vel 

 fuscescente, subtenui, evittata ; spira attenuata. mucronata : suturis regula- 

 riter impressis : anfractibus instar octonis, convexiusculis : aperturi parvius- 

 cula. Dvato-rhomboidea, intus albida; labro acuto, subsinuoso; columella 

 incurva, incrassata et contorta. 



Hah. — Tennessee, Dr. Edgar. 



GoxioBASis Bairdiana. — Testa plicata, subattenuata, tenebroso-fusca, sub- 

 crassa, unovittata ; spira subattenuata, mucronata ; suturis impressis ; anfrac- 

 tibus octonis, convexiusculis : apertura parviuscula, ovato-rhomboidea, intus 

 albida et unovittata; labro acuto, vix sinuoso; columella incurva, parum 

 incrassata et valde contortil. 



Hab. — Columbia River, at Fort George, Oregon, J. Drayton. 



GosiOBASis iNCLiNAXS. — Tcsta valde plicata, subattenuata, tenebroso-fusca, 

 subtenui, obsolete vittata : spira subattenuata, mucronata: suturis sulcatis ; 

 anfractibus octonis, planulatis, plicis inclinatibus indutisj apertura parvfi, 

 rhomboidea, intus dilute fuscescente ; labro acuto, sinuoso ; columellS, valde 

 incurva, fusco-rufescente et valde contorta. 



Hab. — Near Albany, Georgia, Rev. G. White. Etowah, J. Postell. Tuscam- 

 bia, Alabama, B. Pybas. 



GoxiOBASis rxDCTA. — Testa valde plicata, conica, subtenui, polita, tenebro- 

 sa, quadrivittata ; spira conoidea, mucronata ; suturis valde impressis; anfrac- 

 tibus octonis, planulatis, plicis erectis indutis : apertura parva, rhomboidea, 

 intus albida et quadrivittata ; labro acuto, subsinuoso ; columella incurva et 

 contorta. 



Hab. — Near Vienna, Dooly County, Georgia, Rev. G. White. 



GosioBAsis LiNDSLETi. — Testa plicata, cylindraceo-conica, subtenui, luteo- 

 cornea, evittata; spira conoidea; suturis irregulariter et valde impressis; 

 anfractibus planulatis, plicis erectis undutis ; apertura parviuscula, rhom- 

 boidea, intas cseruleo-alba ; labro acuto, sinuoso ; columella incurva et 

 contorts. 



Hab. — Tennessee, Prof. Lindsley and Dr. Edgar. 



1862.] 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



GoNiOBASis Thoktoxii. — Testa rugoso-plicata, conoidca, subtenui, cornea, 

 CTiUata ; spira couoideu ; suturis irregulariter et valde imp'ressis : aufractibas 

 convexiusculiB, plicis flexis distantibus indutis: apertura submagna, rhom- 

 boidea, intus alba; labro acHto, sinuoso ; columella subincurva, incrassata et 

 contorta. 



Hab. — Tuscumbia, L: B. Thornton, Esq. Florence, Alabama, Rev. G. White. 



GoNioBASis iNTERVENiENS. — Tcstix pHcata, coDoidea, subtenui, tenebroso- 

 corneu, vel fusca, vel bivittata, vel evittata ; spira obtuse conoidea ; suturis 

 irregulariter et valde impressis ; anfractibus instar senis, planulatis, plicis 

 paulisper flexis ; apertura subgraadi, rhomboidea, intus alba vel vittata vel 

 fusca; labro acuto, sinuoso : columella incurva et parum contorta. 



Ilab. — North Alabama, Prof. Tuomey. 



GoNiOBASis coNTiNENS. — Testa plicata, conoidea, subtenui, luteo-cornea, evit- 

 tata : spira regulariter conica ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus instar septenis, 

 convexiueculis, plicis paulisper flexis; apertura parviuscula, ovato-rhomboidea, 

 intus ca;ruleo-alba; labro acuto, vix sinuoso; columella parum incurva et 

 contorta. 



Hab. — North Alabama, Prof. Tuomey. 



GoNioBASis CEREA. — Testa plicata, conoidea, subtenui, cerea, evittata ; spiri 

 conoidea; suturis impressis; anfractibus senis, subconvexis, plicis minutis : 

 apertura grandiuscula, elougato-rhomboidea, intus albida ; labro acuto, sinuoso: 

 columella incurva et contorta. 



Hab. — Tennessee, Prof. Troost; and Duck Creek, Tennessee, J. Clark. 



GoxiOBA.sis VIRIDICATA. — Testa plicata, subattenuata, tenui, viridescente, 

 evittata ; spira conoidea, subattenuata ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus. instar 

 septenis, planulatis, plicis subcrebris ; apertura parvissima, rhomboidea, intus 

 caernleo-alba ; labro acuto, parum sinuoso; columella incurva, superne flaves- 

 cente, infernb albidci, contorts. 



Hab. — Grayson County, Kentucky, S. S. Lyon. 



GoNiOBASis Leidyana. — Testa plicata, fusiformi, subtenui. luteo-cornea, 

 evittata; spira obtuso-conica ; suturis linearibus ; anfractibus senis, planulatis: 

 apertura pergrandi, ovato-rhomboidea, intus albida; labro acuto, tenui: colu- 

 mella incurva, ad basim contorta. 



jjab. — Benton County, Northwest Alabama, G. Hallenbeck, Esq. 



GoNioBASis Abbevillexsis. — Testa plicata, conoidea, subcrassa, castanea. 

 fulgida, evittata ; spira conica; suturis linearibus; anfractibus septenis, con- 

 vexiusculis, fere, planulatis, ad apicem carinatis et striatis ; apertura grandi- 

 uscula, ovato-rhomboidea, intus subochracea ; labro acuto, vix sinuoso: colu- 

 mella incrassata et contorta. 



77at.— Abbeville District, S. Carolina, J. P. Barratt, M, D. 



GoNiOBASis AMCEXA. — Tcsta plicatil, subfusiformi, crassa, dilute castanea. 

 evittata; spira obtuse conoidea; suturis irregulariter impressis; anfractibus 

 instar senis, subconvexis, ad apicem striatis ; apertura grandi, ovato-rhom- 

 boidea, intus albida ; labro acuto, parum sinuoso, columella incrassata, incurvA 

 et contorta. 



Hab. — North Alabama, Prof. Tuomey. 



GomoBASis PAUPKRCCi.A. — Tcsta plicata, subcylindracea, subtenui, castanea 

 vel tenebroso-oliva, evittata ; spira curtiuscula : suturis impressis : anfractibus 

 couvexiusculis, superne plicatis, ad apicem striatis ; apertura parva, ovato- 

 rhomboidea, intus albida ; labro acuto, parum sinuoso; columella incurva. et 

 Jiaulisper contorta. 



Hab. — North Alabama, Prof. Tuomey. 



GoNiOBASis PRoLETARiA. — Tcsta plicata, obtuse conoidea. subtenui, corned, 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



evittata ; spira, obtuse conicu ; suturis impressis : anfractibus instar senis, 

 convexiusculis, superne plicatis ; apertura. grandiuscula, subrhomboideil, intue 

 albida : labro aeuto, sinuoso ; columella iucurva, incrassata et contorta. 

 Hab. — Florence, Alabama, Rev. G. White. 



GoxiOBASis ixcoxsTANS, — Testu plicatii, subfusiformi, subtenui, cornea vel 

 olivacea vel tenebroso-fusca, vittata vel evittata; spira obtuse conica ; suturis 

 impressis ; anfractibus senis, convexiusculis, supernt; plicatis; apertura grandi- 

 uscula, subrhomboidea, intus albida vel dilute purpurea vel vittata ; labro 

 acuto, parum sinuoso ; columella incurva et contorta. 



Hah. — Etowah River, J. Postell. 



GoNioBASis MEDiocuis. — Tcsta plicata, subfusiformi, subtenui, cinereS, ful- 

 gida, vittata ; spira conoidea ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus senis. 

 planulatis ; apertura grandiuscula, rhomboidea, intus albida et vittata : labro 

 acato, sinuoso ; columella incurva. incrassata et contorta. 



Hah. — Tennessee, Dr. Edgar and President Lindsley. 



GosiOBASis CRisPA. — Tcsta plicata et transverse striata, fusiformi, subcrassa. 

 luteola, crispata, evittata; spira obtusii ; suturis irregulariter impressia : an- 

 fractibus instar senis, convexiusculis ; apertura grandi, ovato-rhomboidea, intu.= 

 albida. ; labro acuto, vix sinuoso ; columella parum incurva et contorta. 



Hab. — Florence, Alabama, Rev. G. White. 



GoNioBASis ORXATELLA. — Testa pUcatd, fusiformi, crassiuscula, luteo-cornea. 

 vittata ; spira obtuso-conoidea; suturis irregulater et valde impressis ; anfrac- 

 tibus instar senis, convexis ; apertura grandi, ovato-rhomboidea, albida er 

 obsolete vittata ; labro acuto, vix sinuoso ; columella, parum incurva et con- 

 torta. 



Hab. — Tennessee, Coleman Sellers. 



GoNiOBASis oLivELLA.— ^Testii plicata, fusiformi, subcrassa, oliyacea, fulgida. 

 evittata ; spira obtuso-conoidea ; suturis irregulariter et valde impressis ; an- 

 fractibus instar quinis, convexiusculis ; apertura grandi, rhomboidea, albida : 

 labro acuto, vix sinuoso ; columella incurva et contorta. 



^a6.— Tennessee, Prof. Troost. 



GONIOBASIS PURPCRELLA. — Testa plicata, conoidea, teuui, purpurescente, 

 fulgida, vittata vel evittata, spira conoidea; suturis impressis: anfractibus 

 instar septenis, planulatis; .ipertura grandiuscula, rhomboidea, intus tene- 

 brosa ; labro acuto, vix sinuoso ; columella incurva et contorta. 



j7a6.— Caney-Fork River, Tennessee, J. Lewis, M. D, 



GONIOBASIS cixERELLA.— Testa plicata, subfusiformi, teuui, luteo cinerea, 

 evittata; spira obtuse conoidea; suturis irregulariter impressis; anfractibus 

 senis, convexiusculis; apertura grandiuscula, ovato-rhomboidea, intus albida: 

 labro acuto, vix sinuoso ; columella incurva et parum contorta. 



Uah. — Tennessee, Coleman Sellers. 



GoNioBASis Christyi.— Testa plicata vel striata vel granulata, fusiformi, 

 subcrassa, inflata, luteo-olivacea, vittata ; spira obtuse conoide.l ; suturis im- 

 pressis ; anfractibus quinis, convexiusculis ; aperturi pergrandi, ovato-rhom- 

 boidea, intus vittata ; labro acuto, vix sinuoso ; columella incrassata, parum 



contorta. j o, • 



Hah Valley River, Cherokee County, N, Carolina, Prof. David Christy. 



GONIOBASIS ixsTABiLis.— Testa plicata vel laevi, fusiformi, crassa, subinflata, 

 vittata vel evittatS, olivacea ; spira conoidea ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus 

 instar quinis, convexiusculis : apertura grandi, ovato-rhomboidea, intus vit- 

 tata ; labro acuto, vix sinuoso ; columella incrassata, parum incurva et 

 contorta. 



1862.] 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



J3a&.— Twenty- one miles north of Murphy and other places in Cherokee 

 County, Georgia, Prof. David Christy. 



GoNiOBASis Gerhardtii. — Testa carinata, fusiformi, tenui, fulgida, luteo- 

 virente, quadrivittata ; spira regulariter conica ; suturis impressis ; anfrac- 

 tibus senig, planulatis, ultimo grandi ; apertura magna, rhomboidea, intus 

 albida et vittata; labro acuto, parum sinuoso ; ■columella incurvu, inferne 

 paulisper incrassatd. 



Bab. — Chattanooga River, Georgia, Alexander Gerhardt. Coosa River. Ala- 

 bama, Dr. Spillman. 



GoNioBASis iNFUSCATA. — Testa carinata, fusiformi, subtenui, fulgida, tene- 

 brosa, nigricante, trivittata ; spira conoidea ; suturis impressis; anfractibus 

 instar senis, superne planulatis, ultimo grandi ; aperturft submagna, rhomboidea; 

 intus albida vel fusca. trivittata; labro acuto, parura sinuoso; columella in- 

 curva, inferne paulisper incrassata. 



Hab. — Georgia, Rev. G. White. Coosa River, Alabama, Dr. Spillman. 



GoNioBASis MUTABiLis. — Tcstu, cariuata vel plicata vel striata, subfusiformi, 

 subcrassa, luteo-virente, quadrivittata vel evittata ; spira obtuse conoidea ; 

 anfractibus senis, planiusculis ; apertura subgrandi, rhomboidea, intus albida : 

 labro acuto, vix sinuoso ; columella incurva, incrassata, parum contorta. 



Hab. — Butts County, Ga., Rev. G. White. 



GoNioBASis CRUDA. — Tcsta carinata, subfusiformi, subtenui, fulgida, tene- 

 broso-fusca, obsolete vittata ; spira obtusa ; suturis paulisper impressis ; an- 

 fractibus superne planulatis, ultimo grandi ; apertura submagna, rhomboidea, 

 intus tenebrosa; labro acuto, vix sinuoso; eolumella paulisper incurva, vix 

 incrassata. 



^a6.— Tennessee River, Dr. Spillman. 



GoNioBASis RUBELLA. — Tcstii cariuatil, subulata, subtenui, rubicunda, evit- 

 tata ; spira attenuata; suturis valde impressis; anfractibus octonis, vix con- 

 vexis ; apertura parvissima, subrhomboidea, intus vel albida vel rubida : labro 

 acuto, sinuoso: columella parum incurva et contorta. 



Hab. — Near Murphy, Cherokee County, N. Carolina, Prof. Christy. 



GONIOBASIS MACELLA. — Tcsta carinatS,, subulata, tenui, olivacea, evittata; 

 spira subattenuata ; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus septenis, convexias- 

 culis ; apertura parvissima, subrhomboidea, intus albida, ad basim maculate ; 

 labro acuto, parura sinuoso ; columella, incurva et paulisper contorta. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama, Prof. Brumby. 



GoNiOBASis RUBiGiNoSA. — Testa Carinata, subsubulata, subtenui, fulgida, rubi- 

 ginosa, obsolete vittata ; spira subattenuata ; suturis valde impressis ; an- 

 fractibus instar senis, convexis ; apertura parvissima, subrhomboided, intus 

 dilute rubiginosa; obsolete bivittatd ; labro acuto, sinuoso ; columella parum 

 incurva et contorta. 



Hab. — Oregon, W. Newcomb, M. D. 



GoNiOBASis UcHE^NSis. — Tcsta carinata, obtuse conoidea, subtenui, cornea, 

 evittata ; spira obtusa ; suturis impressis ; iinfractibus instar senis, planulatis ; 

 apertura submagna, ovato-rhomboideri, intus albida; labro acuto, parum sinu- 

 oso ; columella incurva, paulisper contorta. 



jjah. — Little Uchee River, below Columbus, Georgia, G. Hallenbeck. Esq. 



GONIOBASIS iNoscuLATA. — Testa carinata, conoidea, subtenui, luteo-cornea, 

 evittata ; spira subelevata ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus instar septenis. 

 convexiusculis ; apertura submagna, rhomboidea, intus albidu : labro acuto. 

 sinuoso ; columella incurva, inferne incrassata. 



Hab. — Little Uchee River, below Columbus, Georgia, G. Hallenbeck, Esq. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



GoNiOBASis Barrattii. — Tests, carinata, subfusiformi, subtenui, virido-cornea 

 vel rufo-corneS, obsolete vittata vel evittata ; spira obtuso-conoideu ; suturis 

 vald(§ impressis ; anfractibus septenis, convexiusculis, ad apicem plicatis ; 

 apertura submagna, subrhomboidea, intus albida vel obsolete vittata; labro 

 acuto, vix sinuoso ; columella parum contorta. 



iTa6.— Abbeville District, S. Carolina, J. P. Barratt, M. D. 



GoNioBASis RUBRiCATA. — Testa carinata, conoidea, subtenui, rufo-fusca, 

 polita, evittata; spira subelevat^; suturis valde impressis; anfractibus instar 

 septenis, convexis ; apertura submagna, rhomboidea, intus dilute rubida, labro 

 acuto, vix sinuoso ; columella incurva, parum incrassata. 



Hab. — Tennessee, Prof. Troost. 



GoxiOBASis Bentoniensis. — Testa carinatii, plicata, striata, conoidea, sub- 

 tenui, virido-cornea, evittata ; spira elevata, conoidea ; suturis valde impressis; 

 anfractibus septenis, convexiusculis ; apertura parviuscula, ovato-rhomboideu, 

 intus albida ; labro acuto, vix sinuoso; columella incurva, parum contorta. 



Hab. — Benton County? North Alabama, G. Hallenbeck, Esq. 



GoxioBASis NEGATA. — Testa striata, elliptica, subconica, crassa, luteoU, 

 quadrivittata ; spira obtuse conica ; suturis valde et irregulariter impressis; 

 anfractibus senis, convexiusculis, ultimo grandi ; apertura, parviuscula, ovata, 

 intus albida et quadrivittata ; labro acuto, spissato ; columella inflecta, incras- 

 sata, ad basim obtuse angulata. 

 • Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama, E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



GoNiOBASis Elliottii. — Testa obsolete striata, subobtuso-conoidea, subcrassa, 

 vel fiavescente vel fuscescente, evittata ; spira subobtusa ; suturis valde im- 

 pressis ; anfractibus instar senis, convexiusculis ; apertura magna, ovato rhom- 

 boidea, intus vel albida vel fiisca ; labro acuto, parum sinuoso; columella 

 paulisper incurvd, incrassata et parum contorta. 



Hah. — Fannin County, Georgia, Bishop Elliott. Ucbee and Little Uchee 

 Rivers, Alabama, G. Hallenbeck and Dr. Gesner. 



GoNioBASis FLAVESCENS. — Testa striata, interdum granulata et plicata, sub- 

 cylindracea, fiavescente, crassa ; spira obtuse conoidea ; suturis irregulariter 

 impressis ; anfractibus convexiusculis, ultimo pergrandi ; apertura grandi, sub- 

 rhomboidea, intus vittata vel alba ; labro acuto, vix sinuoso, columella incurva, 

 superne valde incrassata et contorta. 



Hab. — Oconee and Tennessee Rivers, Tennessee, Rev. G. White. 



GoxioBASis Hallenbeckii. — Testa tuberculatS,, inferne transverse striata, tur- 

 rita, subtenui, luteo cornea vel olivacea, vittata vel evittata ; spira elevalo-tur- 

 rita ; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus octonis, carinatis, ad peripheriam 

 compresso-tuberculatis ; apertura magna, ovato-rhomboidea, intus albida; 

 labro crenulato, sinuoso ; columella incurva, parum incrassata et valde contorta. 



Hab. — Randall's Creek, near Columbus, Georgia, G. Hallenbeck, Esq. 



GoNiOBASis Canbti. — Testa tuberculata, plicata, inferne transverse striata, 

 turrita, tcnui, vel fusca vel dilute fusca, macalata ; spira, turrita ; suturis ir- 

 regulariter impressis ; anfractibus septenis, carinatis, ad peripheriam compresso- 

 tuberculatis ; apertura parva, rhomboidea, intus maculata ; labro crenulato, 

 sinuoso; columella incurvii et valde contorta. 



Hah. — Lake Monroe, Florida, Wm. Canby, and Etowah and Tennessee Rivers, 

 Georgia, J. Postell. 



GoNioBASis CouPERii. — Testa tuberculata, plicata, inferne et superne striata, 

 turrita, tenui, tenebroso-fusca, ad basim vittata ; spira turrita ; suturis valde 

 impressis ; anfractibus septenis, subcarinatis. ad peripheriam et supra com- 

 presso-tuberculatis ; apertura parvissima, subrhomboidea, intus tenebroso et 



1862.] 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



uno-vittata ; labro crenulato, valde sinuoso ; columella incurva, contorta et 

 purpurescente. 



ffab. — Etowah River, Mr. Couper, by J. Postell. 



GoNioBASis DowNiEANA. — Testa tuberculata, subturrita, superne clatbrata et 

 subcarinata, inferae transverse striata, tenui, dilute fusca; spira conoidea, 

 clatbrata; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus septenis, subcarinatis, ad 

 peripheriam et supra compresso-tuberculatis ; apertura submagna, ovato-rhotn- 

 boidea, iatus albida; labro crenulato, sinuoso ; columella incurva et contorta. 



Ifab. — Etowah River, J. Postell. 



GoNioBASis Tryoxiaxa. — Testa granulosa vel striata, subfusiformi. luteo- 

 fusca vel tenebroso-fusca, crassa, robusta, vittata, raro evittata, spira obtuse 

 conoidea ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus instar senis, ultimo per- 

 grandi ; apertura pergrandi, ovato-r'homboidea, intus valde vittata ; labro sub- 

 crenulato, vix sinuoso; columella paulisper incurva et vix contorta. 



Hab. — Oostenaula, near Rome, Bishop Elliott. Etowah River, Georgia, J. 

 Postell, and Ocoee River and Tennessee River, Rev. G. White. 



GoNiOBASis GRANATA. — Testii granulosa, inferne striata, fusiformi, vittata, 

 subcrassa, fulgida, iaflata, olivacea vel rubiginosa ; spira depressa ; suturis ir- 

 regulariter impressis ; anfractibus instar quinis, planiusculis, ultimo pergrandi; 

 apertura grandi, ovato-rhomboidea, intus valde vittata ; labro parum crenulato, 

 vix sinuoso; columella incurva et contorta. 



Hab. — Etowah River, near Canton, Georgia, Bishop Elliott and Rev. G. White. 



GoNiOBAvSis Stewardsoniaxa. — Testa granulata, transverse striata, subfusi- 

 formi, crassa, fulgida, inflita, viridi vel fusca, evittata : spira perobtusa ; su- 

 turis impressis ; anfractibus convexiusculis ; apertnr.a pergrandi, ovato-rhom- 

 boidea, intus alba; labro acuto, subsinuoso ; columella incurva, superne et in- , 

 fern^ incrassata et contorta. 



H-a6._KQoxville, Kentucky, B. W. Budd, M. D. 



GoNioBASis CADUs. — TcstCi canccllata, fusiformi,; subcrassa, inflata, flaves- 

 cente, evittata ; spira subobtusa; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus 

 quinis, convexiusculis, superne cancellatis ; apertura pergrandi, ovato-rhom- 

 boidea, intus alba ; labro acuto, parum sinuoso ; columella incurva, incrassata 

 et contorta. 



Hab. — Georgia, Major J. Le Conte. 



Descriptions of Eleven New Species of MELANID.E of the United States. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



Trtpan'OSTOMA Hexetanum. — Testa carinata, attenuata, mucronatu. tenui. 

 diaphana, pallido-cornea, evittata; spira regularitpr attenuato conica : suturis 

 regulariter impressis ; anfractibus deals, planulatis, inferne medio regulariter 

 carinatis et striatis ; apertura parva, subrhomboidea, intus albida ; labro valde 

 acuto, sinuoso; columella incurva et vald6 contorta. 



Hab. — Tennessee? Smithsonian Institution. 



Trypanostoma rostellatum. — Testa striata, attenuata, subtenui, cornea, 

 evittata ; spira elevata ; suturis va1do impressis : anfractibus octonis, convexius- 

 culis ; apertura parva, rhomboidea, intus albida ; labro acuto, valde sinuoso ; 

 columella incurva et valde contorta. 



Hab. — Florence, Alabama, Rev. G. White. 



Trypanostoma strictum. — Testa carinata, subattenuata, tenui, diaphana, 

 pallido-cornea, uno-vittata; spira regulariter conica : suturis linearibus : an- 

 fractibus instar senis, supernb planulatis; apertura parviuscula. rhomboidea, 



[May. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. -<o 



iatus albida et uno-vittata ; labro acutO; paulisper sinuoso ; columella parum 

 incnrva et contorta. 

 Hab. — South Carolina, Prof. L. Yanusem. 



Trtpanostoma latitittatum. — Testa carinata, subattenuata, subtenui, ful- 

 gida, tenebrosa, late vittata ; spira conoidea ; sutuiis linearibus ; anfractibus 

 instar septenis, superne planulatis, ad basim luteis : apertura parva, rbom- 

 boidea, intus lativittata ; labro acute, sinuoso; columella incurva, inferne in- 

 crassata. 



Hab. — Chikasaha River, Alabama, TVm. Spillraan, M. D. 



Trtpanostoma Carolikexse. — Testa Isevi, conoidea, subcrassa, cornea ; spira 

 obtuso-conica ; suturis impressis : anfractibus septenis, convexiusculis ; apertura 

 parviuscula. rhomboidea, intus albida vel fuscescente ; labro acuto, sinuoso ; 

 columella incurva, incrassata et contorta. 



Hab. — South Carolina, Prof. L. Yanuxem. 



Trypakostoma lutecm. — Testa laevi, obtuso-conica, subcrassa, straminea, 

 evittata, mucronata ; spira obtuso-conica : suturis impressis ; anfractibus octonis. 

 convexiusculis; apertura parviuscula, rhorabica, intus dilute straminea; labro 

 acuto, sinuoso, ad marginem incrassato ; columella inflecta, infernfe incrassata 

 et contorta. 



Hab. — South Carolina, Prof. L. Yanuxem. 



Trypanostoma digxum. — Paulisper nodosa, subfusiformi, subcrassa, mellea, 

 unifasciaia ; spira elevata, regulariter conicii : suturis impressis; anfractibus 

 instar octonis, planulatis, ultimo subgrandi ; apertura ovato-rhombica, inlns 

 albida vel salmonia, univittata : labro acuto, sinuoso : columella inflecta, con- 

 torta, ad basim obtuse angulata. 



^a6.— Yellow" af Creek, Shelby Co., Alabama, E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Strephobasis carisata. — Testa carinata, subfusiformi, inflata, subtenui, tI- 

 rente, quadrivittata ; spira obtusa : suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus senis, 

 planulatis, ad apicem carinatis, ultimo inflate ; apertura submagna, rhomboidea, 

 intus albida et vittata ; labro acuto, parum sinuoso ; columella incrassata, re- 

 trorsa et valde contortd. 



Hab. — Tennessee River, "Wm. Spillman, M. D. 



Strephobasis olivaria. — Testa lasvi, elliptica, crassa, vittata, tenebroso- 

 oliva : spira obtuso-conica ; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus instar septenis, 

 convexis, ultimo pergrandi ; apertura subgrandi, rhomboidea, intus alba et vit- 

 tata ; labro acuto, paulisper sinuoso ; columella inferne incrassata et retrorsum 

 contorta. 



Hab. — Knoxville, Tennessee, J. Clark. 



LiTHASiA TiTTATA. — Testa laevj, cylindracea, subtenui, tenebroso cornea, 

 quadrivittata ; spird brevi, decollata ; suturis irregulariter impressis; anfracti- 

 bus planulatis, ultimo pergrandi : apertura grandi, subrhomboidea, intus albida 

 et valde vittata ; labro acuto : columella incrassata, alba, incurva. 



Hab. — Coosa and Cahawba Rivers, Alabama, E, R. Showalter, M. D. 



LiTHASiA DowxiEi, — Tcsta parum nodulosa, subcylindracea, castanea, spira, 

 obtuse conoidea, subelevata ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus sep- 

 tenis, planulatis, ultimo subgrandi : apertura subgrandi, rhomboidea, intus vel 

 albida vel vittata; labro acuto, sinuoso; columella alba et incurva. 



Hab. — Cumberland River, T. C. Downie. 



1862.] 19 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



June Bd. 



Mr. Lea, President, ia the Chair. 



Twenty-two members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication ; 

 New Melanidge of the United States. By Isaac Lea. 

 New Unionidje of the United States. By Isaac Lea. 



June lOth. 



Mr. Jeanes in the Chair. 



Sixteen members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 Descriptions of new Genera, Subgenera and Species of Tertiary and 

 Recent Shells. By T. A. Conrad. 



June nth. 

 Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Seventeen members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



Notice of a Collection of the Fishes of California, &c. By Theo. 

 Gill. 



Synopsis of the Lophobranchiate Fishes of Western North America. 

 By Theo. Gill. 



June 24<A. 

 Yice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Eighteen members present. 



On report of the respective Committees, the papers of Mr. Lea, read 

 •Tune 3d, were ordered to be published in the Journal, and the follow- 

 ing in the Proceedings. 



notice of a Collection of the FISHES of California presented to the 

 Smithsonian Institution by TULr. Samuel Hubbard. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



The collection of Fishes noticed in the present article was formed by Mr. 

 Samuel Hubbard, of the Pacific Mail Steamship Company, during the past 

 two years. Although small, it contains several species of considerable rarity 

 and not less than five new ones, two species represent entirely "new" 

 genera. The species will hereafter be more fully described. 



Family EMBIOTOCOID^* Agassiz. 



* The family of Embiotocoids appears to be represented by two subfamilies and thir- 

 teen genera, — I. Emb:otocin>e, with the genera Hypsurus A. Ag., Phanerodon Grd. 

 (incl. Embiotoca argyrosoma Grd.), Ditrema T. S., Embiotoca Ag., Damalichthys Grd. 



[June. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



Subfamily EMBIOTOCIN^ Gill. 



This subfamily embraces all the Embiotocoid fishes, with the exception ol 

 Hysterocarpus, which is the type of a second one (Hysterocarpinae Gill.) The 

 group is thus limited to embrace those fishes whose dorsal fin has a longer 

 soft than spinous portion. In Hysterocarpus, on the contrary, the spinous 

 portion is considerably longer than soft, and has 16 to 18 spines ; that genus 

 is composed of a single fluviatile species. 



Damalichthys lateralis GUI. 



Five specimens are in the collection, all young and representing the stage 

 named by Girard Emhiotoca ornata. 



Embijtoca jacksoxii Agassiz. 

 Several fine specimens. 



Amphistichos argentbus Agassiz. 

 Two specimens. 



HyPEBPROSOPON ARCUATUS Gibbous, (nee A. Ag.) 



This species is very closely related to the Hyperprosopon argenteus of Gib- 

 bons ; the description of the latter being essentially applicable, with the fol- 

 lowing exceptions : 



1st. The forehead is higher in the middle and the frontal outline little 

 incurved. 



2d. The snout is at the horizon of the centre of the pupil, or even lower, 

 and not as elevated as its upper border. 



3d. D. 27. A. III. 32—33. 

 8 5 



4th. Scales 72 — , -. 

 21 6 



In almost other respects it resembles Hyperprosopon argenteus, and has the 

 same terminal blackish ventral band. 



Two specimens, a male and female, equal in size to those of Hypei-prosopoa 

 argenteus, are in the collection of Mr. Hubbard. 



Htpocritichthys analis Gill. 



Hyperprosopon analis A. Agassiz. — I refer to this species, which has 



(incl. Emhiotoca ZateraZis Ag.), Rhacochilus Ag., Amphistichus Ag., Holconotus Ag., (nee 

 Grd.), Cymatogaster Gib. (aggregatus,) Hypocritichthys Giil, Hyperprosopon Gib., 

 Brachyisiius Gill, {B. frenatus, new sp, with small mouth, uuiserial acute teeth. 



5 



D. VIII. 13—15. A. HI. 21,22. Scales 38. 39 . Purplish, with a langitudinal 



11+2, 

 band on head interrupted by eye. Abeona Grd. {minima). 



II. HysterocarpinjE, with one genus,— Hysterocarpus Gib. These thirteen genera 

 contain at least eighteen species, Hyperprosopon having three, and Damalichthys, 

 Phanerodon and Holconotus each two. 



I have adopted the name of Cymatogaster instead of Micrometrus, because the former 

 was first applied in publication to the species here retained under it, and its application 

 to another type and the substitution, for the present, of the name of Micrometrus, as 

 exJiibited in publication, vfas a.n after thought. As it is generally acknowledged that an 

 author has no more right to modify the nomenclature introduced by himself than another, 

 such a change cannot be accepted. 



The genus Micrometrus of Gibbons included two types ; the first was considered by 

 Girard, from the slight description of Agassiz, to be identical with the Holconotus ot 

 the latter. The second was regarded as a distinct generic type, and named Abeona. 

 The correctness of this differentiation being admitted, the name of Abeona must be 

 retained, and Metrogaster of Agassiz be regarded as a synoDym of Micrometrus, itself 

 as above considered, a synonym of Cymatogaster. 



1S62.] 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



not yet been described, two specimens in Mr. Hubbard's collection, the 

 possession of an authenticated specimen, received hy the Institution, from 

 M. Agassiz enabling me to do so with perfect certainty. 



Uyperprosopon analis has been truly affirmed by A. Agassiz to have "the 

 general appearance and about the size of Metrogaster aggregatus Agass., but 

 the teeth and the shape of the dorsal fin show that it is a true Hyperprosopon, " 

 and, notwithstanding the superficial resemblance to another type, it may be 

 added, that the physiognomy is also essentially more like that of Hyperpro- 

 sopon than Cymatogaster (or Metrogaster ^9.) The diflFerence between it and 

 the typical species of Hyperprosopon is, however, so great as to authorize its 

 generic separation. 



The body is oblong, the height little exceeding three-tenths of the extreme 

 length, of which latter the head forms less than a fourth. The head itself 

 is oblong conic ; the diameter of the eye about equal to a quarter of its length, 

 and not much longer than the snout ; the latter is as high or higher than the 

 upper border of the pupil ; the forehead less depressed than in H. argenteus. 



6 



D. IX. 22. A. III. 24. Scales 65 . 



16 + 2 

 The color is silvery, slightly tinged with brassy on the sides and light pnr- 

 plish on the back ; the margin of the elevated spinous portion of the dorsal 

 is blackish, and the anal has a very distinct ink-like spot between its fourth 

 and eleventh rays. 

 The species referred to Hyperprosopon may be thus distinguished : 



I. Body convex and high, the height more than a third of the 



length, and the back behind nape convex. Head rhom- 

 bic, about as high as long. Eyes very large. Snout short. 



D. IX. 26—27. A. III. 32—34 Hyperprosopon. 



ct. Ventrals with a broad terminal black band. 

 8 



Scales 85 H. argenteiis. 



20-21 

 8 



Scales 72 — H. arcuatus. 



21 

 3. Ventrals uniformly colorless H. agassizii.* 



II. Body oblong, subfusiform, with the back before the dorsal 



scarcely convex. Head oblong-conic. Eyes moderate. 



D. IX. 22. A. III. 24 Hypocritichthys. 



6 



Scales 65 — H. analis. 



16 



* Hyperprosopon agassizii" GiZ^. 



This species is closely related to H. arcuatus Gibbons, but the occipital region is 

 more elevated and obliquely convex; the caudal fin less emarginated, its margin dark 

 and the ventral fins are colorless. 



8 



D. IX. 27. A. III. 33. P. 25. Scales 65 . 



This species is the one to which the name of H. arcuatum Gibbflns refers in the 

 " Notes on the described Holconoti," by A. Agassiz. Gibbons' species is, however, 

 quite different, and rather allied to H. argenteus than to the present one. 

 The following table shows the relative proportion of the several species: 



arg. arc. Ag. 



Extreme length (=100) 74 8^ 6i 



Height ^ * •'' 



Head— Length of head 24 23 23 



Eye— Diameter 7J 7} 7 



Snout— Length 5J 5 5 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. Zit 



SCI^NOIDS (Cuv.) Gthr. 

 ISOPISTHINiE Gill. 



SERIPHaS POLITDS Aypcs. 



Seriphus politus Ayres, Proc. Cal. Acad. Nat. Sc, pt. ii. p. 80. 



I refer to tliis species a fish sent by Mr. Habbard. It, however, disagrees 

 in many important respects with Dr. Ayres' description, but, as the dif- 

 ferences which the diagnosis of that gentleman offer in comparison with the 

 present species are equally at variance with the attributes of all Sciienoid fishes, I 

 am compelled to believe that Ayres has quite seriously erred in his description. 



The present fish agrees with Coher Scisenoids in having seven branchiostegal 

 rays, scales on the head and not more than two anal spines and five branched 

 ventral rays. The second dorsal, anal and caudal fius are naked, and do not 

 appear to have been scaly, except the interval between the median rays of 

 the latter through which the lateral line runs as usual. The outer teeth of 

 the upper jaw are erect and the interior bent back. The pectoral is more 

 than half as long as the head, equalling the space between the orbit and its 

 axilla, while the ventrals are rather less than half as long as the head. 



D. VII. II. 1. IS. A. II. 1. 20. C. 4. 1. 8, 7. 1. 3. P. 2. 1. 4. V. I. 5. 

 9 



Scales 65 — . 



Pseudobranchise are developed. 



Family CHIROIDM (Sw.) Gill. 

 Subfamily CHIRIN^ Gill. 



Chibus guttatus Girard. 

 Two specimens. 



Scales (1) ; lat. line 105 ; transverse line from dorsal to ventral fin. 1 1 4 | 

 8 I 35 = 51. 



Chirus coxstellatcs Girard. 



One specimen was forwarded. 



The two species here enumerated are excessively nearly allied, but appear 

 to constantly differ in the color of the pectoral fin, Chirus guttatus having 

 them plain, while Chirus consiellatus has white dotted pectorals. The former 

 species has the same form as Chirus constellatus, and I am quite unable to 

 appreciate the justness of Girard's remark that "the body in its general out- 

 line is intermediate in form between C. constellatus and C. pictus, though more 

 like the latter in its general bearing, the dorsal and ventral outlines being 

 more arched." Girard has confined his comparisons to the C. pictus, from 

 which it is totally different in proportions, squamation, color, &c., but has not 

 assigned the characters which really distinguish it from C. constellatus. The 

 color of neither species is accurately described. 



Subfamily OXYLEBIIN^E. 



Genus Oxylebius Gill. 



This genus is allied to Zaniolepis (Girard), but the form is shorter and com- 

 pressed, the ctenoid scales are similar to those of Chirus (Sfeller), the profile 

 from the depressed nape rectilinear and the snout pointed, the first dorsal fin 

 convex, increasing rapidly from the first to the fifth spines, and with the 

 membrane behind the anterior as well as others not notched. The anal fin is 

 shorter, coterminal with the second dorsal, and with the anal spines stronger, 

 the second being longest as in Zaniolepis. The lower rays of the pectoralsare 

 1862.] 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



simple and nearly entire, and the ventral fins perhaps inserted farther behind, 

 its second soft ray slightly produced and the membrane between it and the 

 first acutely notched. The caudal fin is truncated. The teeth are present on 

 the jaws, vomer and palatine bones as in Zaniolepis, those of the former 

 being larger in the outer row, and, as in that genus, there are six branchi- 

 ostegal rays. 



OXTLEBITJS PICTITS Gill. 



1 

 D. XV. + I. 14. A. Ill 12 -. C. 1. I. 6. 5. I. 1. P. 10 -f 6. V. I. 5. 

 1 



The color is brownish, or dark tawny yellow, with indistinct lighter spots 

 and with six undulating, vertical, dark purple bands ascending on the dorsal 

 and anal fins, as wide as the intervals between them on the back and nar- 

 rower below. The first band is under the three anterior dorsal spines and 

 descends to the scapular bone ; the second from the sixth to eighth spines, 

 ceases behind the bases of the ventral fins ; the third extends over the last 

 five spines and descends on the spinous portion of the anal ; the fourth covers 

 the dorsal between the fifth and ninth soft rays and descends on the anal 

 between and across the fourth to sixth rays ; the fifth is close before the end 

 of the vertical fins ; and the sixth partly on the end of the caudal peduncle 

 and partly on the fin. The head has an arched band from the snout to the 

 margin of the operculum, interrupted by the lower half of the eye ; beneath 

 that band and on the branchiostegal membrane are numerous rather large 

 spots. An arched band from the nape runs toward each eye below the pos- 

 terior angle. The four small tufts, one over each eye and one on each side 

 of the nape, are scarlet. The upper part of the spinous dorsal is light, and 

 the margin of the soft mostly blackish. The anal is saflFron yellow, and be- 

 tween the broad bands continued on it from the body are linear ones, parallel 

 with them, the last crossing near the ends of the last four rays. The caudal 

 has two or three bands ; the pectoral four, and the ventral two. 



Subfamily HOPLOPOMATIN^ Gill. 

 Ophiodon elongatus Girard. 

 Two fine but small specimens of this species are in the collection. 



Family SCORP^ENOID^ (Sw.) Gill. 



Subfamily SCORPiENINiE (Sw.) Gill. 



Genus Sebastodes Gill. 



This genus is readily distinguished by the characters assigned to it in the 

 Proceedings of the Academy for 1861 ; the head above is quite unarmed. The 

 other species of California referred to the genus Sebastes belong to another one 

 distinguished by a form nearly similar to that of the true Sebastes, but with 

 a dorsal fin armed with only twelve or thirteen (XI. — XII. -[- I.) spines, and 

 having, as far as known, only ten abdominal and fourteen caudal vertebras. 

 With regard to the Sebastes clongatus of Ayres there is some doubt, but it 

 appears, from the only description and figure published of it, to be, if not 

 congeneric with the other Califoruian species, to be at least more nearly allied 

 to them than to Sebastodes. The genus comprising S. nigrocinctus Ayres, <S. 

 nehulosits Ayres, S. auriculaius Girard, S. ocellatns Cuv. (= S. helvomacu- 

 latus Ayres), S. meJanops Girard and S. rosaceus Ayres may be called Sehas- 

 tichthijs.* Not having had the opportunity to examine all of the foregoing 

 species, I cannot be certain that all are valid. 



* The species of Sebastes without palatine teeth, of which the S. poli/lepis of Bleeker 

 and Gumher is one, may be considered as representing another generic type (Scbas- 

 lopsis Gill ) 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 279 



SeBASTODES PAtTCISPINIS Gill. 



One specimen is in the collection. 



Family COTTOIDJE Girard. 

 Subfamily COTTIN^. 

 AspiDOCOTTiTS Bisox Girard. 

 Three small specimens. 



Artedips NOTOSPILOT0S Girard. 

 Three small specimens of this species are also in the collection. The spe- 

 cies undergoes so considerable a change with age, especially in the armature 

 of the head, that it might readily be the cause of a multiplication of nominal 

 species. 



Family GOBIOID.E. 



Subfamily GOBIIN^. 

 Lepidogobius gracilis Gill. 

 Two specimens in the collection. 



The Gobius newberrii of Girard is the type of another genus, to which the 

 name of Eucyclogobius may be given ; it is distinguished from Lepidogobiiis 

 by the naked head, the oblong and equal second dorsal and anal fins, &c. 



Family BLENNIOID^. 

 Subfamily CEBEDICHTHYIN-.^ Gill. 

 Cebedichthys tiolaceus Girard. 

 A fine specimen is in the collection. 



Subfamily CENTRONOTIN^ Gill. 



Apodichthys vikescens Ayres. 

 Three specimens. 



The Apodichthys flavidus of Girard, as originally based, may possibly be dis- 

 tinct from A. virescens Ayres, but there can be no doubt that one of the spe- 

 cimens sent to the Smithsonian Institution by Ayres under the name of A. 

 virescens and referred by Girard to A. flavidus, truly belongs to the former 

 species. 



Apodichthys sanguineus Gill.* 



This species resembles Apndichthijs virescens, but is of a beautiful intense 

 red color, minutely punctulated with darker ; the dorsal and anal fins have 

 the margins rather darker and with a yellow dot generally in front of the tip 

 of each fourth to sixth ray, and more distinct on the anal. A dark purple 

 line under the eye is behind the upper jaw, but there is none above. 



D. XCIII.— XCV. A. I.— 40, 



* A specimen of Apodichthys which appears to represent another species of the genus 

 was obtained by the naturalist of the Northwestern Boundary Commission. It is 

 ihirteen inches long and rather discolored, but does not exhibit any irace whatever of 

 the characteristic line behind ihe upper jaw and below the eye. The anal spine is much 

 shorter and transversely cleft at the tip ; the latter is probably abnormal I have deferred 

 a description, hoping to have the validity of the species confirmed by other specimens, 

 and am very reluctant to name it from the single one in the collection, but as this notice 

 may call attention to it, I have finally resolved to publish. The species may be called 

 A.i7wnMtus. The radial formula is D. XC. A. I.— 38. C. 23. P. 2. 11. 1. In pro- 

 portions it does not essentially differ from A. virescens or A. flavidun. The eye is, per- 

 haps, smaller and the body higher, The color is brownish, with a dark spot or bloich 

 on the back at the base of every fourth or fifth spine. 



1862.] 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



A single adult specimen was sent to the Institution by Mr. Hubbard, and a 

 smaller one is in the collection formed by the Northwestern Boundary Com- 

 mission. 



Family BATRACHOID^. 



PoEicHTHYS POEOsissiMus Girard. 



After an autoptical examination of adult specimens, Dr. Giinther was un- 

 able to distinguish between the Pacific and Atlantic representatives of Porich- 

 thys. I am therefore compelled to follow him. The only specimens of the 

 Atlantic fish that I have seen were young. 



Family ATEERINOIDJE. 

 Chieostoma califoesiexse Gill. 

 Atherinopsis californiensis Girard, Ayres. 



Two fine specimens in the collection. 



I fully concur with Messrs. Gunther and Ayres in uniting Atherinopsis, 

 Basilichthys and Heterognathus of Girard in one genus, but am compelled to 

 retain for that genus the name of Chirostoma given by Swainson, he having 

 first truly limited it. The A. affinis and ^1. tenuis of Ayres must consequently 

 be named Chirostoma affine and C. tenue. 



The Atherina nigrans of Richardson is scarcely a species of Chirostoma, but 

 apparently the type of another genus, which may be named Melanotaenia, 

 distinguished by a more robust body, black lateral band, &c. 



Family GADOIDS. 



Subfamily GADIN^. 



Gadcs proximcs Girard. 



Six fine specimens are in the collection. 



This species is a true Ganus. The Gadus agJiJinus L. and G. minutus Yar- 

 rell, of our Eastern America and Northern Europe, belong to different genera. 

 The former distinguished by its black lateral line, pointed first dorsal and 

 emarginated caudal, may be called Melanogrammus ceglijinus and the Gadus 

 minutus, with its abbreviated head, short abdomen, emarginated caudal, &c., 

 is the type of a genus which may be called Brachygadus. 



Subfamily BROSMOPHYCIN^. 



Beosmophtcis marginatps Gill. 



A fine specimen in the collection. 



The name of Brosmophycis was published a short time before Ayres' name 

 of Halias. The latter name has been also preoccupied. 



Family PLEURONECTOID^. 



Subfamily PLEURONECTIN^. 



Platichthys stellatus Girard. 



I have not been happy enough to distinguish any difi"erences between the 

 Platichthi/s rugosits of Girard and Pleuronectes stellatus Pallas. Girard has ac- 

 knowledged that " the latter species is closely allied to P. rugosus, from which 

 it may even not differ. An actual comparison between the specimens is, how- 

 ever, demanded, before a settlement of the question can bn arrived at." As 

 Richardson's elaborate description and figure are entirely applicable to the 

 Californian species, it appears to be much more appropriate to consider the two 

 identical until " an actual comparison" shall enable us to ascertain any dif- 

 ferences, which is quite improbable. 



[June. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



Genus Paeopheys Girard. 



Body fusiform in profile, covered with cycloid scales. Lateral line scarcely, 

 convex in front, recurrent backwards near the back. Head large and conic. 

 Snout conic. Eyes entirely in the anterior half, contiguous and nearly even. 

 Nostrils on the horizon of the superior mar<,dns of each orbit ; the anterior 

 subtubular ; the posterior with an anterior flap. Mouth lanequal, little ob- 

 lique, the maxillary bones of the colored side extending little beyond the 

 anterior margin of the orbit, and much shorter than that of the white side. 

 Lips rather thin and simple. Teeth on the white side uniserial, contiguous, 

 short and wide, presenting an incisorial edge as in Pleuronectes planvs, &c. 

 A recumbent anal spine. Caudal fin truncated or little emarginated. 



This genus is most closely related to Pleuronectes. 



Paeopheys hubbaedii Gill. 



This species is very slender, the height being considerably less than a third 

 of the total length and not much greater than the head. The eyes are situated 

 in the middle of the anterior half of the head ; a diameter enters four times 

 and a half in the length of the head. The caudal fin is slightly emarginated 

 and forms a seventh of the total length. The pectoral bent forwards, extends 

 little beyond the interior preopercular ridge. 



D. 83. A. 62. C. a. 6. 6. 3. P. 12. V. 6. Scales of lateral line 96, 

 • The color is a uniform brownish. 



This very fine species is distinguished especially from Parophrys vetulus 

 Girard by its more elongated body and head as well as the other proportions. 



I have given myself the pleasure of dedicating the species to the gentleman 

 who has formed the collection of which the present article is descriptive. The 

 judgment with which that collection was made is evident from the number 

 of new species described ; and the excellent condition of the specimens, all of 

 which are in alcohol, and have even, in several cases, preserved their original 

 colors, is worthy of all praise. 



Family CLUPEOID^^. 

 Subfamily CLUPEINiE. 

 Alacsa califoenica Gill. 



The form is that of a herring (Clupea), the back is thick and rounded, and 

 the height little exceeds a seventh of the extreme length. The head fonns 

 little more than a fifth of the length. The opercular margin behind is ver- 

 tical. The diameter of the eye is rather less than a fourth of the head's 

 length, while the snout equals a third of the same. The lower jaw, when 

 closed, is even with the upper, which latter has no emargination. The ventrals 

 are under the posterior third of the dorsal. 



D. 2. 1. 15. A. 2. 1. 16. P. 1. 17. V. 1. 8. Scales 57 -f- 6 ; longitudinal 

 rows 12. 



The color is silvery on the sides and beneath and blue above. 



This species belongs to the genus Alausa of Valenciennes, but not of I^a- 

 ture. The genera of Clupeoids need a careful revision, altogether too much 

 importance having been attached to the dentition. As I am not certain to 

 what other genus the present species should be eventually referred, it is 

 deemed advisable to retain it in that one where most naturalists would 

 place it. It is, however, more nearly allied to the type of Clupea than that 

 of Alausa. 



Four specimens, between eight and ten inches long, are in the collection. 

 1862.] 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Family CYPRINOID^. 



Subfamily CYPRININ^. 



Caeassias aukatus Heckel. 



Two abnormal varieties of this species, — the common and well-known 

 "Gold-fish," — are in the collection. One of them has the tail doable, but 

 connected at the superior margin. 



Family GALEORHINOID^. 

 Subfamily GALEORHININ.^. 

 Tkiacis semifasciatus Girard. 

 A young specimen was sent. 



laOPLAGIODON, Sp. 



A new species of this family is in Mr. Hubbard's collection. As the single 

 specimen is a young one, its positive determination is deferred for the 

 present. 



Family RAIOIDJE. 



Subfamily RAIIN-^. 



TJkapteea binoculata Girard. 

 One specimen. 



Synopsis of the species of LOPHOBRANCHIATE Fishes of Western North 



America. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



The present brief article is preliminary to a more extended paper on the 

 Lophobranchiate fishes inhabiting the Western coast of the North American 

 continent. Six species have been attributed by Dr. Girard to that coast. Sub- 

 tracting from that number one which appears to have been founded on a 

 smaller individual of the common species described by Girard as Si/nfftiatkus 

 raliforniensis, we have still the number assigned by Girard ; the S. califor- 

 niensis of that author being distinct from the homonymous species of Storer, 

 as shown by Ayres. All the species noticed are in the collection of the Smith- 

 sonian Institution. 



Family SYNGNATHOIDuE Bleeker. 



Subfamily HIPPOCAMPIN^ (Kaup.) GiU. 



Genus Hippocampus Cuv. 



1. Hippocampus gig as Girard. 



2. Hippocampus gracilis Gill. 



The body is very slender, the height being contained four times and a half 

 in the length of the tail, or equal to the distance of the snout from the hinder 

 border of the orbit. The tube forms about half the length of the head, which 

 forms rather more than a sixth of the length. The spines at the angles of 

 the frontal triangle are nearly equal and blunt. The coronet is rather ele- 

 vated ; the temporal spines rather large and blunt. The angles, especially 

 the dorsal, of every third or fourth plate are tuberculous. 

 10(3) 



D. 19. Plates . 



10 (1) 38 



[June. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 283 



The color is a very dark purple, iodistinctly and sparsely dotted with lighter. 

 The fins are colorless. 



A single female specimen was obtained by Mr. Xantus at Cape St. Lucas. 

 It diflfers from any of the previously described species by the combination of 

 characters indicated in the diagnosis, and is remarkable for its slender form, 

 which rivals that of Acentronura. 



Subfamily SYNGNATHINM Kaup. 

 Genus DERMATOSTETHUS Gill. 



This genus is, perhaps, most closely related to Syngnathus, although in 

 some respects tending to Trachyrhamphus {Kaup), kc. It is readily distin- 

 guished from Syngnathus by the following characters : 



1st. The trunk and tail especially are considerably more robust. 



2d. The breast-shields are covered by the adipose skin. 



3d. The occiput is elevated and carinated. 



■4th. The lower jaw is received within the upper. 



In all other respects it resembles Syngnathus. 



3. Dekmatosthus punctipinnis Gill. 

 The height and widih of the trunk nearly equal the head behind the eyes. 

 The head forms about an eighth of the total length ; the snout equals the 

 distance of the base of the pectoral fin from the eye, while the height at the 

 "occiput is equal to the length of the operculum. The tail (exclusive of the 

 fin) is twice as long as the trunk. 



(2 +*) 18 I 9 (or ^) 



D. 40—42. Plates . 



(1 +t) 19 (1) 39 

 The color is a uniform chestnut, while the dorsal fin has its rays dotted 

 with chestnut. 



Four specimens, all of which were males, of about twelve Inches long, 

 were found at San Diego, California, by Mr. Trowbridge. 



Genus SYNGNATHUS (Linn.) Kaup. 



This genus, as restricted by Dr. Kaup, is represented in California by five 

 species, which may be briefly distinguished by the characters assigned in the 

 following synopsis : 

 Dorsal with 38 — 42 rays. 



Postanal plates 46 — 47 S. californiensis. 



Postanal plates 40—43 S. griseolineatus. 



Dorsal with 30 — 34 rays. 



Snout forming more than half the length of head. 

 Snout equal to interval between eye and base of 



pectoral. Nuchal plates scarcely keeled S. arundinaceus. 



Snout equal to interval between eye and end of pec- 

 toral fin. Nuchal plates sharply keeled S. leptorhynchus. 



Snout scarcely forming half the length of head S. dimidiatus. 



4. Syngnathus califokniensis Storer. 

 Nee S. californiensis Girard. 



19J I i n 



D. 42. Plates . 



19—20 (1) 46—47 

 California (1), W. Button. 



* Occipital and nuchal plates; in the formula for the othrr species they are omitted, 

 t First or gular plate; in the formula for the others it is omitted. 



1862.] 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



5. Syngnathus gkiseolineatus Ayres. 

 Syngnathus californiensis Girard (nee Storer.) 

 Syngnathus abbotti Girard. 



18 I 9 



D. 38—41. Plates . 



18 (1) 39—43 

 San Francisco (1), Dr. Ayres ; (1) Dr. Newberry. Tomales Bay (4), Mr. 

 Samuels. Fort Umpqua, Oregon (3), Dr. VoUum. 



6. Syngnathus arundinaceds Girard. 



17 I 9 



D. 34. Plates . 



17 (1) 43 

 Coast of California (1), Dr. Suckley. 



7. Syngnathus leptokhynchus Girard. 



17 18 



D. 32. Plates . 



17 (1; 41 

 San Diego, California (1). 



8. Syngnathus dimidiatus Gill. 

 Syngnathus brevirostris Girard (nee Hemp, et Ehr., nee Tern, et Schlegel.) 

 17 I 7 



D. 30—32. Plates . 



17 (1) 37—39 

 San Diego, California (3). 



Subfamily DORYRHAMPHIN^E Kaup. 



Genus DORYRHAMPHUS Kaup. 



9. Doryehamphus californiensis Gill. 



The snout forms half the length of the head ; its crest is composed of about 



ten irregular teeth, and farther back are two others. The double frontal crest 



is well dentated. The superior orbital border has five or six teeth. The ridge 



under the orbit is unarmed, but on the side of the snout is well serrated. 



The chin is prominent but unarmed, and some distance behind, in the middle 



is a slight swelling. The longest superior pectoral rays are about equal to 



the length of the operculum. The caudal is as long as the snout. 



(2 +)15 I 7 



D. 25. A. 3. C. 44. P. 20. Plates . 



(1 +) 18 (1) 16 

 The color is an almost uniform yellowish brown, but with a black streak 

 from the snout to the upper axilla of the pectoral fin. 



A single female specimen of this species was discovered by Mr. Xantus at 

 Cape St. Lucas. 



Descriptions of New Genera, Subgenera and Species of Tertiary and Recent 



Shells. 



BY T. A. CONRAD. 



Family PLEUROTOMIDM. 



TURRIS, Rumphius. PLEUROTOMA, Lam. 



The species of this genus are inhabitants of the Indian Ocean, coasts of 

 Madagascar and China ; and, as they are unknown on the American coasts, 



[Jupe, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



it is probable that all of this family, recent and fossil, in America belong to 

 distinct genera, nsnally classed as subgenera by authors. The predominant 

 forms in the Miocene of the United States are Drillia and Snrcula, the latter 

 containing some species much larger than any of the former genus. The true 

 Turris group is also absent from the Eocene, where species of the two Miocene 

 genera above mentioned and others abound. It is also unknown in a recent 

 state on the American coasts. 



SDRCULA, Gray. 



1. Surcula e n g o n a t a. — Fusiform ; whorls 8, turrited, nodulous on the 

 angle, very minute revolving lines above the angle, distinct below it ; one line 

 more prominent near and below the suture ; labrum margin rounded ; body 

 whorl with obsolete revolving lines. 



Locality. Virginia. 



2. Snrcula nodu 1 i fer a. — Subfusiform, turriculate ; whorls 8, carinated 

 below the suture by a subtuberculous line, and furnished with tubercles 

 shaped like inverted commas, distant ; a revolving line between the tubercles 

 and suture ; body whorl with prominent revolving lines and a minute inter- 

 mediate one. 



Locality. Virginia. 



3. Surcula ru g a t a. — Fusiform, turriculate ; whorls 10, lower half obtusely 

 ribbed ; upper half concave, subangular, with much curved, rugose lines of 

 growth ; beneath the suture whorls obtusely subcarinated, distinct revolving 

 lines over the ribbed portion, minute and obsolete above it; suture profound ; 

 body whorl and beak striated ; beak slightly curved. 



Locality. Calvert CliflFs, Md. 



DRILLIA, Gray. 



1. Drillia impress a. — Elevated, scalariform or turriculate, with short, 

 obtuse ribs ; contractions of whorls striated, and having a carinated line 

 near the suture, revolving lines impressed, double, alternated, rugose volu- 

 tions 8 ; base subumbUicated. 



Locality. James River, Virginia. 



2. Drillia d i s t a n s, n. s. — Turriculate, whorls 6, scalariform, with distant 

 obtuse ribs on the lower half ; suture waved, with an impressed line above it : 

 body whorl with an impressed revolving line above and four raised revolving 

 lines inferiorly ; iipper sinus of labrum deep and rounded, lower obsolete. 



Locality. Virginia. 



3. Drillia a r a t a. — Turriculate, whorls 9 ; spire elevated, acute ; snbsca- 

 lariform, the contracted portion of the whorls flattened and with perpendicular 

 sides, below this space costate, ribs somewhat oblique and crossed by minute, 

 olose lines, which on the body whorl reach the base, obsolete above, distinct 

 inferiorly. 



Locality. Virginia. 



4. Drillia be 11 a. — Turriculate; whorls 7, scalariform, costate nearly to 

 the suture ; ribs distant, obtuse ; whole surface with minute revolving raised 

 lines, very minute and close on the contracted space below the suture, reflected 

 labrum callous at the upper end. 



Locality. Virginia. 



5. Drillia e b u r n e a. — Turrited ; upper part of w"korl without ribs and with 

 an impressed revolving line ; lower part ribbed, rib^ohHque, rounded ; surface 

 striated with close impressed revolving lines, finer and obsolete on the tipper 

 part of the whorls. 



1862.] 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



MANGELIA, Leach. 



Mangelia V i r g i n i a n a.— Short-fusiform : whorls 5, subscalarifonn, or 

 medially angular ; ribs prominent, two whorls from the apex smooth ; minute 

 revolving lines on the lower half of the penultimate whorl ; one or two obsolete 

 revolving lines on the body whorl. 



Locality. Yorktown, Virginia. 



PETRICOLID.E. 



PLEIORYTIS, Conrad. 

 Equivalve, ovate or oval, with radiating striae, gaping posteriorly ; hinge cf 

 right valve with two widely diverging teeth ; left valve with one direct thiok 

 triangular, bifid tooth under the apex, and an oblique compressed tooth pos- 

 teriorly ; sinus of pallial impression extending beyond the middle of the 

 valves ; muscular impressions large. (Miocene.) 



P. o V a t a. — Ovate, compressed, very inequilateral, thin, radiately striate, 

 strife numerous, undulate or irregular, crossed by wrinkled fine lines ; car- 

 dinal teeth prominent. 



Proportionally longer, more compressed and inequilateral than P. cent e- 

 naria, and with narrower hinge teeth. 



Locality. Day's Point, James River, Virginia. 



FASCIOLARIID^. 

 BUSYCON, Bolten. 



1. B. carinatu m. — Fusiform ; whorls 6 ; spire elevated ; whorls angular, 

 angle situated below the middle of the whorls, carinated, carina tuberculated, 

 sides of volutions above the angle straight and very oblique, surface trans- 

 versely striated ; lines rugose, unequal, obsolete on the middle of last whorl ; 

 columella and canal sinuous. 



Locality. Virginia. 



2. B. file sum. — Pyriform, thick, lineated, lines revolving, close, fine, un- 

 equal, rugose ; spire short, scalariform, spinose on the angle, spines foliated ; 

 columella twisted, sinuous ; last whorl obliquely ridged ; canal long, sinuous. 



Locality. Yorktown, Virginia. 



Resembles B. gibbosum, C, (Kiener, Conch, pi. 9, fig. 2,) but has 

 shorter spines, finer strise and more scalariform spire. That is a recent 

 reversed species, but the fossil has been found dextral only. Rather common 

 at Yorktown. The spire in some specimens is short and hardly scal?.riform, 

 but the revolving ridge on the lower part of the body whorl distinguishes this 

 from the other Miocene species. 



FASCIOLARIA, Lam. 

 Subgenus Lirosoma, Conrad. 1862. 

 Subpyriform ; ribbed, beak narrow and produced, slightly recurved ; on*" 

 long, very oblique plait at the angle of the columella. 

 Fasciolaria (Fusiis) sulcosa, Conrad, Foss. Med. Tert. 



Subgenus Tkkkbraspiba, Conrad. 1862. 

 Spire elongated, whorls angular ; plaits concealed or not reaching the ont»^r 

 edge of columella. 



Fa!iciolariii elegans, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 



BUCCINID^F. 

 TRITIA, Risso. 

 T. sc ala ri s.— Ovate-acute ; spire elevated, turrited ; whorls 7, longi- 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



tudinally ribbed ; ribs rounded, prominent, curved on the last whorl ; revol- 

 ving lines close and distinct ; right lip striated within ; fold at base of colu- 

 mella distinct. 

 Locality, 



BULLIA, Gray. 

 Subgenus Bulliopsis, Conrad. 



1. B. ovata. — Smooth; last whorl subquadrate ; ovate or oblong-ovate, 

 entire ; whorls 5 or 6, slightly convex ; spire conical, about half the length of 

 the shell ; aperture elliptical. 



Locality. St. Mary's Co., Md. 



Shorter and broader than the other two species of Maryland, the callus not 

 prominent nor extending beyond the upper extremity of aperture. 



2. B. Marylandic a. — Oblong-ovate, entire ; whorls 6, slightly convex 

 or subtruncated laterally ; suture impressed ; aperture about half the length 

 of the shell ; columella profoundly callous above, the callus extending beyond 

 the lip. 



Locality. St. Mar; 's Co., Md. 



Proportionally longer than the preceding, and the spire subscalariform. 

 The shell is variable in outline, the spire being much longer in some speci- 

 mens than others of equal breadth. 



3. B. quadrata, C, Journ. A. N. S, vi. 226. 



There are no known living representatives of this subgenus. 



COL UMBELLIN^. 



AMYCLA, H. and A. Adams. 



Subgenus Astyris, H. and A. Adams. 



1. Amycla communis. — Ovate, whorls 6 or 7, smooth and polished ; 

 spire rather elevated ; body whorl abruptly rounded in the middle or sub- 

 angular ; submargin of labrum minutely dentate. 



Locality. St. Mary's River, Md. 



A common species in the blue clay of Maryland and Virginia. 



2. A. a vara, var. granulifera. — Narrow-acuminate ; longitudinally 

 ribbed ; ribs numerous, angular ; spire subturriculate ; whorls 8, crossed by 

 impressed lines, four in number, on 4 whorls of the spire, and covering the 

 body whorl to the base ; where the lines cross the ribs there is a small tubercle ; 

 labrum 7-dentate within ; columella subplicated from base to submedial angles. 



Locality. Occurs with the preceding. 



3. A. reticulat a. — Subturrited ; volutions 6 — 7, slightly convex ; lines 

 prominent, revolving and transverse lines equal in size, transverse lines most 

 remote, lines smaller and closer below the middle of last whorl ; right lip 

 toothed within. 



Locality. Virginia. 



OLLVIN^. 



DACTYLUS, Klein. 



Subgenus Steephona, Browne. 



Dactylus eboreus. — Slightly tumid on the upper part of body whorl; 

 whorls 6 in number, the penultimate contracted below the suture ; columella 

 slightly tumid, with numerous acute plaits, and five oblique plaits at base, 

 four of them elongated. 



Locality. Virginia. 



1862.] 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



DENTALID^. 



DENTALIUM. 



D. Carolinense. — Regularly curved, ribs 9 to 11, narrow and laterally 

 fiattened. 



Locality. North Carolina. 



Larger, less tapering, and having fewer ribs than D. attenuatum, Say. 

 Longer and tapering more than D. , Emmons, Geol. N. C, fig. 188. 



VERMETID^. 



VERMETUS, Adams. 



Subquadrate, ribs 3, longitudinal, distant, the lowest one most prominent ; 

 longitudinal lines minute, close, rugsse, becoming obsolete near the spire, 

 which is regular, each whorl having two carinated lines revolving in the middle 

 and one joining the suture at base ; longitudinal lines none. 



Locality. Neuse River, below Newbern, N. C. 



TROCHID.E. 

 LEIOTROCHUS, Conrad. 



L. distans. — Trochiform ; volutions 4; suture subcanaliculate near the 

 apex ; revolving lines, a few distant, distinct, impressed, the others very fine ; 

 periphery rounded ; base convex-depressed, with six distant impressed revol- 

 ving lines and very fine intermediate lines ; umbilicus narrow, profound : sub- 

 carinated at base. 



Locality. Calvert Co., Md. ? 



CARINORBIS, Conrad. 

 Suborbicular ; spire small, depressed, or but little prominent ; shell costate, 

 ribs revolving, distant, prominent ; last whorl flattened above ; umbilicus 

 small, and the space beneath it channelled ; peritome continuous. 



C. (IJelphinula) hjra, Conrad. C. (^Delph.) quadricoxtata, Emmons. (Mio- 

 oene. ) 



SCR OBICULARIDJE. 

 ABRA, Leach. 



A. o V al i s. — Oval, convex, inequilateral, with five close laminar concentric 

 lines ; posterior side short, with a distinct obtuse fold ; end margins rounded ; 

 within highly polished ; cardinal and lateral teeth prominent. 



Jjocality, Yorktown, Virginia. (Miocene.) 



ASTARTID^. 



ASTARTE, Sowerby. 



Aatarte distans. — Triangular, convex-depressed, with four broad con- 

 centric undulations ; concentric lines unequal ; umbo flattened with small 

 prominent concentric ribs, inner margin minutely crenulated. 

 Locality. Cumberland Co., N. J., near Shiloh. (Miocene.) 

 Very distinct from the nearest allied species, A. undulata Say. 



PARASTARTE, C. 

 Elevated, triangular, equilateral, ventricose ; epidermis pale and shining : 

 hinge of right valve with one thick nearly direct tooth, and deep and rather 

 long channel in the hinge plate anterior to the tooth ; left valve with two 

 equally diverging teeth ; posterior submargin of ^both valves channelled 

 above. 



Estarte triquetra, C, |Tampa Bay, is the type of this new genus, 



[June. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2S9 



whicli differs essentially from Er>/cinelli, whilst the exterior is verv much like 

 the latter. (Recent.) 



CRASSATELLA, Lam. 



C producta. — Trapezoidal, elongated, ineqixilateral, concentrically 

 ribbed ; ribs or ridges subacute, prominent as far as the umbonal slope which 

 is obtusely subcarinated, and curved inwards ; posterior slope depressed and 

 medially subangalar, concentric lines not prominent except behind the umbo, 

 where they are more distinct ; posterior extremity obliquely truncated ; inner 

 margin minutely crenulated. 



Locality. Enterprise, Clark Co., Miss. (Eocene.) 



This elegant species may be distinguished from C. protexta by the furrows 

 or ridges extending over the whole disk. It belongs to a group of fossils quite 

 distinct from those of Claiborne, Jackson or Vicksburg. 



TRIGONIID^E. 



VERTICORDIA, Wood. 



V. Emm on si 1, C, Emmons, Geol. N. C, 286 206. 



This is the only species yet known in an American formation. 



ARCID.E. 



CUCULL^A, Lam. 



The typical form of hinge teeth in this genus is not represented in the 

 Eocene or Cretaceous Arcid<e. The oldest form which could be referred to 

 Cuculljea occurs in the latter formation, represented by thick ponderous 

 shells, with a broad hinge, and are in marked contrast to that of the recent spe- 

 cies, whilst the character of the teeth is equally remote. I propose, therefore, 

 to characterize the cretaceous subgenus as follows : 



IDONEARCA, Conrad. 



Triangular, thick, delicately lined ; hinge thick, medial cardinal plates 

 transverse, laminar, laterally striated ; anterior and posterior plaits elongated, 

 oblique, curved downwards at the ends towards the umbo, and laterally striated ; 

 interior plate curved, very prominent. 



Cucullcea Tippana, C, and T. capax, C. (Cretaceous.) 



The following European species will come under this section : 



Area tumida, d'Orbig., A. Marceana, d'Orbig., A. fibrosa, d'Orbig. 



TRIGONARCA, Conrad. 



Equivalve, trigonal, angular on the umbonal slope ; hinge area narrow : 

 series of cardinal plates curved and placed transversely or nearly at right 

 angles to the hinge line. 



T. {Cucullcea) Maconensis, C, Journ. A. N. S. 



Viewed exteriorly, this shell has the habit of Cucullcea, but the hinge of 

 Axinsea. It probably has the internal elevated plate, but the specimens are 

 filled with stone too hard to be removed, (Cretaceous.) 



Subgenus Latiarca, Conrad. 



Triangular, thick, capacious ; hinge line narrow medially, broad and thick 

 on the sides ; cardinal plates granular and laterally striated, towards the ends 

 in short oblique series ; cardinal area wide with obliquely diverging grooves. 



L. (Cucullcea) gigantea, C, L. idonea, C, C. pnonchela, Rogers, C. trans- 

 versa, Rogers. (Eocene.) 



ANOMOLOCARDIA, Klein. 



A. tr i gi nt i nar i a. — Elongated, rhomboidal, very unequilateral, ven- 



1862.] 20 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEiMY OF 



tricose ; ribs about 31 ; square, not very prominent, on the posterior 

 side divided by an impressed line and posterior to the umbo with an in- 

 termediate raised line ; posterior end emarginate ; cardinal area transversely 

 striated ; hinge line long, and the plates numerous ; disk medially contracted 

 or flattened ; interstices of the ribs transversely striated. 

 Localittj. South Carolina. (Miocene.) 



NOETIA Gray. 



N. ponderosa, Say, var. N. carolinensis. — Ovato-cuneate, ventricose ; 

 disks flattened submedially, ribs about 35 in number ; narrow, flattened, 

 divided by an impressed line, except on the anterior side, where they are dis- 

 tinctly lined only near the base, transverse wrinkles between the ribs close 

 and prominent ; these intercostal spaces have each an acute radiating line 

 about the umbonal slope and posteriorly ; basal margin slightly contracted 

 medially. 



Localiti/. Dauphin Co., North Carolina. (Miocene.) 



Compared to the typical ponderosa it is less ventricose, proportionally 

 longer, and has 35 ribs, whilst the latter has only 26. 



N. ponderosa, Say, is abundant in a fossil state in some localities, and 

 Mr. Tryon has obtained specimens from Cape May, in company with Tvrritella 

 plebeia, Say, but I have not seen a recent specimen, and suppose it to be an ex- 

 tinct S; ecies. 



STRIARCA, Conrad. 



Equivalve, radiately striate, closed ; hinge area transversely striated, and 

 also the epidermis above it ; hinge line dilated and curved at the ends ; teeth 

 divided into oblique hollow cross plaits. 



S. (Area) centenaria, Say. (Miocene. ) 



The remarkable teeth of this genus distinguish it from all other genera of 

 ■^icida ; the plaits are hollow with parallel laminar sides. 



BARBATIA, Gray. 

 Subgenus Gkaxoarca, Conrad. 

 Equivalve, gaping anteriorly ; hinges are rather wide and very oblique, 

 with longitudinal grooves augulated under the back ; tooth more or less di- 

 vided into .trranular plates, posteriorly widely expanded and broken into ir- 

 regular granules. 



A. propatula, C. Miocene Foss., 61, 32, 1. 



CARDITID^. 



Subgenus Ptekomeris, Conrad. 

 Triangular, not oblique, with radiating ribs ; beaks medial : hinge of left 

 valve, anterior tooth direct or directed slightly towards the anterior margin ; 

 posterior tooth double or bifid. 



Cardita per pi ana, C, — A fossil of the North American Miocene is the 

 type of this genus, which embraces two fossil and one recent species, all small 

 shells. The other fo.-sil species is Cardita abreviata. C, and the recent P. 

 {Astarte)JiabeUa, C, of Florida. 



Family J/ iT/ZZZ),E. 



MYTILOCONCHA, Conrad. 



Subfalcate, thick ; perlaceous, laminated ; hinge thick, elongated ; pointed 

 at the apex ; an'oblique tooth or ridge and parallel furrow throughout the en- 

 tire length of hinge area. 



[June. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



1. M. (Myoconcha) inciirva, C, Miocene, Foss. 52, 28, 1. 



2. M. (Mytihis) incrass ata, C, ib., 74, 42, 4. 



PECTENID.E. 

 PECTEiN, Lin. 



P. fraternus. — Ovate, upper valve slightly ventricose, lower convex 

 depressed; ribs 15 or 16, prominent; convex, laterally flattened, nar- 

 rower than the interstices, trilineate, squamose : interstices with fine, unequal, 

 delicately squamose radiating lines ; lower valve, ribs broader, and more nu- 

 merously lined ; ears moderate, with radiating numerous rugose lines. 



Locality. Virginia. (Miocene.) 



Differs from P. Jefferxonius in being comparatively more elevated or ovate ; 

 in having smaller ears, and more numerous and narrower ribs, &c. 



P. Edgecomens is. — Suborbicular ; height not quite equal to the length ; 

 lower valve-ribs 16 to 17, prominent, but not elevated, square or convex- 

 depressed, not quite as wide as the intervening spaces, radiately lined with 

 finely squamose striae, most conspicuous towards the margins, interstices of 

 ribs carinated, in the middle squamose and finely striated ; ears with fine close 

 unequal squamose radiating lines, the larger ones most i^rominent on the pos- 

 terior side ; margins of ligament pit carinated. 



LocaJitjj. Edgewood Co., North Carolina. Cab. Smithsonian Institution. 



Allied to P. eboreus ; the carina between the ribs distinguish it from that 

 species. (Miocene.) 



LYROPECTEN, Conrad. 



Inequivalve, radiately costate ; hinge with a triangular pit as iuPecten 

 and diverging prominent teeth on each side the ligament cavity. 



Lyropectin (Pallium) est re 11 anus, C, Pacific R. R. Reports, 1855, vi. 

 pi. 3, f. 15. 



This genus is peculiar to the Miocene of the Pacific slope, and appears in 

 three large species, the second of which has been figured and described as 

 Pallium estrellanum, in Pacific Railroad Reports, vol. vii. 191, but is very dis- 

 tinct from that species. I propose to name it Volceformis. 



L. crass icard 0. — Suborbicular; ribs 15; larger valve ventricose ; ribs 

 rounded, not quite as wide as intervening spaces ; whole surface radiately 

 striate with equal lines, about 11 on the ribs and 5 on the interstices ; opposite 

 valve convex, ribs prominent, narrower and more abrupt than in the large 

 valve, disposed to be concentrically nodulous or undulated by broad concen- 

 tric furrows, and sometimes an abrupt concentric truncation. 



Locality. California. 



S TRIAD. E. 

 OSTREA, Lin. 

 0. f ale 1 f or mi s. — Falcate, radiately ribbed; ribs numerous, regular, 

 close, rounded, crossed by squamoiis lines ; ribs small on the anterior de- 

 pression ; margins plicated, not crenulated ; ligament cavity oblique. 

 Locality. Euterpise, Clark Co., Miss. Dr. Spillman. (Eocene.) 



Revision of the GULLS of North America; based upon specimens in the 

 Museum of the Smithsonian Institution. 



BY ELLIOTT COUES. 



The present paper is an abstract of a more extended Monograph on the 

 Gulls of North America, prepared for publication in a Government Report. 

 1862J 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



As some time, however, may elapse before the appearance of the Report, it 

 has been thought advisable to issue in advance this brief sketch of the sub- 

 ject. Except in the cases of one or two species, everything not absolutely 

 necessary to the proper understanding of the subject has been omitted. In 

 the Monograph alluded to will be found references to the pages of the works 

 of the authors cited ; descriptions of the various changes and stages of plu- 

 mage ; together with a discussion of doubtful points of synonymy, and the 

 arguments for the views entertained. It is also illustrated by figures of the 

 bills of all the species, and colored drawings of the primary quills, showing 

 the outlines and extent of their markings. The gulls of North America are 

 worked up to the fullest extent that the specimens at my command allow ; 

 but, in the apparent hopelessness of arriving at ultimate truth with regard 

 to these birds, I am jjrepared to relinquish any of the views now entertained 

 which future investigation may prove to be erroneous. 



Family LARIDJE. 



The family Laridfe, embracing the Jagers, Gulls, Terns and Skimmers is 

 divisible into four subfamilies, which may be distinguished by the following 

 brief diagnosis : 



Lesteidin^. — Covering of upper mandible not continuous, the basal half 

 with a somewhat horny overlapping plate, differing in character from the ter- 

 minal portion ; the nostrils opening beneath it, but slightly above the cutting 

 edge, and beyond the middle of the bill. Tail cuneate, the central feathers 

 projecting, usually tapering and much elongated, the lateral stiff and acu- 

 minate. Interdigital webs more or less rounded. Body full, stout ; size 

 tisually moderate. 



Larin^.— Covering of bill continuous. Bill more or less robust, the culmen 

 about straight to the nostrils, abruptly decurved to the tip, which overhangs 

 the tip of the lower mandible. An angular projection at the symphysis of 

 the lower jaw more or less prominent. Nostrils at the end of the basal half 

 of the bill. Tail generally even, the feathers being all of the same character. 

 Webs more or less indented. Inner lateral toe moderate. Body robust ; size 

 very large or moderate. 



Steknin^. — Covering of bill continuous. Bill slender and tapering to a 

 very acute point, the tip not abruptly decurved, nor overhanging the lower 

 mandible. Curve of culmen and commissure regular and gradual from base 

 to tip. Angle of lower mandible scarcely apparent. Nostrils on the basal 

 third of the bill. First primary greatly longer than the second. Tail gene- 

 rally forked. Inner lateral toes very short. Webs indented. Body rather 

 slender and graceful ; size moderate or very small. 



EHYNcnopsiNiE. — Bill excessively compressed, like the blade of a knife. 

 Upper mandible abruptly shorter than the lower. Otherwise generally as in 



We have at present only to do with the second of these groups, the 

 Subfamily LARIN.^. 



Of the many genera into which the Gulls have been divided by systematic 

 writers. North America contains representatives of eight, which seem to differ 

 in well marked characters. They may be arranged in two sections and very 

 briefly defined as follows : 



A. — Lakejs. 

 Size very large, large, or moderate. Body robust, general organization 

 more or less powerful. Bill stout and deep, the angle prominent, th.» tip ob- 

 tuse, seldom attenuated or much decurved. Tail never cuneate or decidedly 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 293 



forked. Legs rather stout ; hind toe sometimes rudimental. Head never 

 with a hood ; in winter with tlie neck streaked with dusky. Under parts 

 white without a decided roseate tint. 



1. Larus. — Size large or moderate. Bill stout, robust, obtuse, the tip not 

 attenuated, the angle usually very prominent. Convexity of culmen great 

 at the ends. Color white, nearly always with a darker mantle. Tail even. 



2. Bla.fijius. — Size moderate. Bill rather slender, its tip somewhat attenu- 

 ated. General color dusky. Tail even, or very slightly emarginate. 



3. Rissa. — Size rather small. Bill stout at base, but more attenuated and 

 decurved at the tip. Angle acute, but not very prominent. Hind toe rudi- 

 mental. Tail even ; somewhat emarginate in the young. 



4. Pagophila. — Size rather small. Bill short, stout, obtuse. Tarsus very 

 short, stout, arm rough. Tibize partially feathered. Webs excised. Color 

 entirely pure white. 



B. — Xeme.i:. 



Size moderate, small, or very small. Body more slender, general organiza- 

 tion more delicate. Bill generally slenderer and more acute, the angle not 

 very prominent, but acute, the tip decurved and attenuated. Tail variable, — 

 even, forked, or cuneate. Legs rather slender. Hind toe always present. 

 Head usually with a hood, or with a black ring I'ound the neck. Under parts 

 white, with a decided roseate tint. 



5. Chroicocephalus. — Size moderate and very small. Bill slender, the tip 

 more or less decurved. Tail even. 



6. Bhodostethia. — Size small. Bill shoi*t and very slender. Neck with a 

 black ring, but head without a hood. Tail cuneate. 



7. Xema. — Size small. Bill short, rather slender, the angle acute. Head 

 with a hood and neck with a ring. Tail moderately forked. 



8. C?-eagrue. — " Of medium size ; bill very strong and much curved ; mantle 

 grayi.sh white ; tail deeply forked." — Lawr. 



The above brief characters define the genera sufficiently for our present 

 purposes ; the aim being rather the determination of species tlian rigid syste- 

 matic classification. 



Genus 1. Larus, Linnaeus. 



Larus, Linn. 1744; nee 1735 ; (typus L. canus, fide Gray.) 

 Gavia, Moehring, 1752 ; nee auct. 

 Leucus, Kaup, 1829. 



Laroide^, Brehm, 1830 ; t. L. argentatnx, Briinn. Bp. 1856 ; (typus idem.) 

 Plantus, Reichenbach, 1853. 

 Glaucus, Bruch, 1853 ; (t. L. glaucKs, Briinn.) 

 Domini can us, Bruch, 1853 ; (t. L, marinas, Linn.) 

 Gavina, Bp. 1854, fide G. R. Gray ; nee Bp. 1856. 



Laroides, Bruch, 1855 ; (t. L. glaucus, Briinn. = Glaucus, Bruch, 1853.) 

 Leucus, Bp. 1856 ; (t. L. glaucus, Briiun. Emend. Leuc. Kaup, 1829 =^ Laroides 

 Briich, 1855, vel Glaucus, Bruch, 1853.) 



The eleven species of the genus found in North America may be very na- 

 turally arranged under the following sections or subgenera : 



Section A. — Leucus Bp. (Plantus, Reich. Glaucus, p. Bruch, 1853, La- 

 roides p. Bruch, 1855.) Large and powerful; primaries without any 

 black ; upper parts very light. 

 a. Color above entirely white. 

 1862.] 




294: PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



1. Larus Hutchinsii Richardson. 



?Z. gfacialis, Benicken (nee Macgill. qui L. gla.ucus, Briinn.) Glaucus 

 glac. Brucla, 1853. Laroides (jiac. Bruch, 1855. Leucusarcticus, "Macg." 

 Bp. 1856, excl. synon. (nee Macg.) Larus Hutchinsli, Richardson, F. 

 B. A. 1831, ii. 419. 



Sp. char. — Adult: Bill flesh-colored at base, blackish on terminal third. 

 Entire plumage pure white, the shafts of the feathers str^w yellow. Feet 

 light flesh-color. Young : Head, neck and upper parts mottled with light 

 reddish brown, appearing on the latter as irregular patches, and on the rump 

 as more or less obsolete transverse bars. Under parts a nearly uniform very 

 light reddish brown, the under tail coverts transversely barred with white. 

 Wings and tail pure white. Length 27^ inches ; extent 60 ; wing 17f ; bill 

 above 2-40 ; along gape 3'20. Tarsus 3'40 ; middle toe and claw 3-50. 



Hob. — Arctic America ; North Pacific ; New York State ! 



The name " Areticus Macgill." is iisually applied to this bird. Bonaparte 

 adopts the name in his Conspectus, moreover, considering it identical with 

 L. argentatus of Sabine's Memoir on the Birds of Greenland. But both these 

 authors speak of a notable amount of blue on the back, — ( ' 'back pure pearl gray, 

 with a good deal of blue" — " cserulescente-perlaceo.") Moreover, Macgilli- 

 vray himself subsequently says that his areticus is the leticopferus Faber. I 

 have not been able to find the original description of glacialis of Benicken ; 

 but Bruch, who adopts that name, speaks of the "gull-blue" of the upper 

 parts. In the Fauna Boreali- Americana, ii. p. 419, there is given a brief de- 

 scription of a Gull, which' is certainly, I think, the present species. The 

 names "areticus" and "glacialis" being in my opinion untenable, I adopt 

 that of Hntchinsii, proposed by Richardson. I have no doubt of the validity 

 of the species. 



This species is now introduced into the Fauna of the United States through 

 a specimen killed in Washington co., New York, and presented to the Smith- 

 sonian Institution by Mr. Peter Reid. It was killed in midwinter, while feed- 

 ing on a dead sheep. Other specimens were collected by Mr. Stimpson in 

 Behring's Straits, while connected with the North Pacific Expedition under 

 Capt. Rodgers, U. S. N. 



b. Color above very light pearl blue. Primaries like the back, fading 

 insensibly into white at some distance from the tips. 



2. Larus glaucus Brttnnich. 



Larus glaucus, Briinn. 1764 et auct. L^aroides glauc. Bruch, 1855. Lettcus 



glauc. Bp. 1856. Plantus gJauc. Reich. 1853. Larus consul. Boil, 1822. 



Glaucus cons. Bruch, 1853. Larus islandicus, Edmonston, 1822, nee 



Edm. 1823. Larus glacialis, Macgill. 1824; (nee Benick.) Larus 



leuceretes, Schlelp. L, leucopterus, Vieill. L. giganteus, Benick. fide Bp. 



Sp. c^crr.— Length 29 inches ; extent 62 ; wing 18-5. Bill above 2-75, along 



gape 3-75 ; height at nostril '80, at angle "85. Tarsus 3*00 ; middle toe and 



claw 2'75. (Dimensions sufficient to separate it from leucopterus, the only 



other N. A. species in this group, (6.) 



Hab. — Arctic seas, coming southward in winter. Labrador in summer. 



3. Larus leucopterus Faber. 



L. argentatus, Sub. I8l8 ; nee Briinn., nee auct. L. argentatus, var. Temm. 

 L. areticus, Macgill. ; (nee Leucus arct. "Macg." Bp. 1856.) Larus 

 leucopterus, Faber;' (nee Vieill., qui X. glaucus, Briinn. > L.aroides 

 leucop. Bruch, 1855. Glaucus leucop. Bruch, 1853. Leucus leucnp. Bp. 

 1856. Plantus leucop. Reich. Larus islandicus, Edmonst. 1823, nee 

 1822. Larus glaucoides, Temm. 1840. Laroides glaucoides et leucop- 

 terus, Brehm, fide Bp. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 295 



Sp. char. — Length 24 inches, wing 16-75. Bill above I'SO, rectus 2-SO, 

 depth at angle '65. Tarsus and middle toe and claw 2-26. 

 Hah. — "Arctic seas; Baffin's Bay ; Labrador." (Lawr.) 



c. Color above pearl blue. Primaries about the color of the back to the 

 vf ry tips, which have well-defined, rounded, white apical spots. 



4. Larus gladcescens Lichtenstein. 



Larus glaucescens, Licht. Laroides glauc. Bruch, 1855 ; (nee Glaucus 

 glauce^cenn, Bruch, 1853, qui Larus rhalcopfenis.) Leuciis glaucescens, 

 Bp. 1856. Larus glaucopterus, Kittlitz, fide Bruch. Glaucus glaucop- 

 terus, Bruch, 1853. 



Sp. char. — Bill long and rather weak, the upper mandible projecting con- 

 siderably beyond the lower, the convexity of the culmen comparatively slight. 

 Angle pretty well defined, the outline between it and the tip about straight. 

 Adult : Mantle pearl blue, much the same shade as in argentatux. Primaries 

 sliRhtly deeper than the back, all with rounded, well-defined apical spots of 

 white." First, Base not appreciably lighter than the body of the feather, with 

 a well-tlefiued wl ite spot on both webs, near the end, separated from the 

 white apex by a transverse band of the color of the body of the feathers ; 

 second, third and fourth, basal portions notably lighter than the terminal, 

 fading into pure white at their junction with the latter, witho^^t spots except 

 the apical ones ; fifth, sixth, basal portions the color of the back, fading into 

 white near the end, separated from the white apices by a band (narrowest on 

 the sixtli) of the color of the outer primai'ies. 



Young of the i/ear. — Bill black. Everywhere deep grayish, somewhat mot- 

 tled with whitish, the feathers of the back, wings and upper tail coverts edged, 

 tipped and crossed by more or less regular transverse bars of grayish white. 

 Length about 27 inches, wing 16-75. Bill above 2'25, gape 3-25, height at 

 angle -70; tarsus 2-60, middle toe and claw 2-50. 



Habitat. — Pacific coast of North America. 



One of the later discoveries, and a very distinct and well-marked species. 



5. Larus chalcopterus Licht. 



Glaucus glaucescens, ("Licht."), Bruch, 1853; (nee Laroides glaucescens, 

 (Licht.) Bruch, 1855. Laroides chalcopterus, Bruch, 1855. Leucus 

 chalcopterus, Bp. 1856. Larus chalcopterus, Lawr. 1858. 



Sp. char. — Adult: "Entirely similar to leucopterus, except in the primaries, 

 which are ashy gray, with rounded white apical spots." Young : " Dark gray, 

 as in glaucopterus,'^ (of Kittlitz ^^lglaucescen>!, Licht.) 



Habitat. — " American coast of Behring's Straits, and Greenland." 



A species I have never seen. The diagnosis is copied from Bruch's Mono- 

 graph. This author, in saying that the primaries of the bird are " ashy gray, 

 with rounded white apical spots," reduces the characters in this respect pre- 

 cisely to those of glaucescens, Licht. Then, the bird being "like leucopterus, 

 except on the primaries," must be separated from glaucescens — throwing out 

 of consideration the primaries, acknowledged to be identical — by those j^oints 

 in which leucopterus differs, — viz. : smaller size, somewhat dilTerently shaped 

 bill, and lighter mantle. In a word, chalcopterus is a leuopterus with the 

 wings of gluiicescens. 



If the characters given are constant, the species is doubtless a valid oue. If 

 so. it is the smaller analogue of glaucescens, and bears the same relation to 

 that species that leucojjterus does to glaucus. 



Section B — Dojiinicanps Bruch. Very large and powerful ; color above 

 dark blackish slate ; primaries crossed with black near the end. 



6. Larus marinus Linnaeus. 



Larus marinus, Linn. 1776. Dominicanus 7narinus, Bruch, 1S53 et 1S35. 



1862.] ' 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Larus ncevius, Gmel. 1788 (juv.) Larus macw/a^MS, Bodd. fide Bp. ; 

 (nee Briinn.) Larus maxlmns, Mii/leri, et Fabricii, Brehm, secundum 

 Bp. 



Sp. char. — First primary with a large white space at the tip, 2] inches long. 

 Young: Fully as large as the adult; the bill as large, but the angle less de- 

 veloped, entirely black. Upper parts dusky chocolate brown, everywhere 

 mottled with whitish and light rufous, (the latter on the back and wings,) 

 the feathers being tipped and the wing coverts deeply indented with this color. 

 Under parts mottled with white, or rufous white and dusky, the throat mostly 

 immaculate. Primaries and tail deep brownish black, the former at the ex- 

 treme apex tipped, and the latter tipped, subterminally barred, and with 

 the outer feather mottled with whitish. Length 30 inches, extent '65, wing 

 18-50. 



Habitat. — North Atlantic, coming south in winter. Florida (Aud.) 

 A full description of the adult appeared unnecessary. That of the young 

 was drawn up from a specimen taken from its nest while in the downy state, 

 and reared by the writer until full grown. 



Section C— Laroides Brehm. (Larus, Kaup ; Glauciis, p. Bruch, 1S53.) 

 Mantle lighter than in B, darker than in A. Primaries crossed with 

 black near the ends, 

 a. Large ; bill robust ; angle prominent. "Herring-gulls." 



I. A rounded, white subapical spot on the first primary. Legs flesh-colored 



7. Lakus occidentalis Audubon. 



Larus occidentalis, Aud. Glaucus occid. Bruch, 1853. l^aroides occid. 

 Bruch, 1855. 



Sp. char. — Bill large, robust, very stout and deep, the culmen very convex 

 at the end, the angle strongly developed, making the under outline doubly 

 concave. Adult : Mantle dark bluish ash, almost slate color, the tips of the 

 secondaries and tertiaries white, the line of demarcation distinct. Primaries : 

 first three black throughout their exposed portions, the outer white for some 

 distance at the tip (1'75 inches), crossed near the end with an irregular black 

 bar ; the shafts entirely black ; the second without a white spot but its tip 

 and the tips of all the others white. The young of the year : Bill entirely 

 black, rather shorter than in the adult, but at the same time with great com- 

 parative depth at the angle. Everywhere a deep blackish brown, mottled 

 with grayish white, the feathers of the upper parts edged and tipped with that 

 color. Rump and upper tail coverts barred with whitish and dusky. Piima- 

 ries and tail uniform deep blackish brown, with scarcely lighter tips, the 

 former without tips. Length 24 inches, extent 55, wing 15-5. Bill above 

 2-30, along gape 3-10; height at nostril -75, width '40, height at angle 'So. 

 Tarsus 2-75. 



Habitat. — Pacific coast of North America. 



A very strongly-marked species. 



8. Larus Smitiisonianus Coues. 



Larus argentatus, auctorum americ. L. argentatus ex America. 



Sp. char. — Adiilt : Mantle typical "gull-blue;" much lighter than in occi- 

 dentaJis, lighter than in brachi/rhj/nchus, much as in Ddaicaren^is and glauces- 

 re.ns, darker than in glaucus or leucopterus. Bases of primaries a but slightly 

 lighter shade of the blue of the back, not so light nor extending so far, (es- 

 pecially on the first j)rimary, ) nor so broad at the end as in Californicus : oil 

 the first the light portion is very short, falling five or six inches short of the 

 white spot, is not lighter at its juncture with the black, nor does it extend 

 further on the central portion than on the edge of the feather; on the second, 

 third and foiirth the light bluish extends about the same distance (about four 



[June. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



inches from the tip of the second), and runs further up along the centres of 

 the feathers than on the edge ; on the seventh the black is a mere spot on one 

 or both webs ; the bluish fades into pure white at its juncture with the black 

 on all the feathers except the first. First primary with a subapical spot near 

 the tip, small, rounded, not much more than an inch long, not longer on the 

 outer vaue than on the inner, sometimes wanting on the former. Second pri- 

 mary without a white spot, or, if present, it is a mere point. Extreme tips 

 of all the primaries white. Young of the year : Entirely a deep sooty brown, 

 the throat slightly streaked and the rump transversely barred with whitish, 

 and the feathers of the upper parts edged with grayish or yellowish. Wings 

 and tail entirely black ; bill black. Length 25 inches ; extent 58 ; wingl7"75; 

 tarsus 2-50 to 2-60. 



Habitat. — Eastern and Western coasts of North America. 



Although it may seem a hazardous undertaking to separate the Herring- 

 gulls of America and Europe, after they have been judged identical by so 

 many authors of repute, I am compelled to do so from a conviction that the 

 differences constantly observable in them are of specific value. Further on it 

 will be attempted to show why they have been confounded. 



The comparison of the extensive series of the North American bird has 

 been made with four perfect specimens of Lams argentatus from Europe, 

 which, I have every reason to believe, represent typically the characters of 

 that species. 



In both birds, the color of the mantle, the color of the bill, the relative pro- 

 portions of the tarsus and toes, the black on the primaries, the small white 

 apical spots, and their bluish bases do not ditfer appreciably. The tangible 

 diiferences are the following : 



1st. The whole bird is targer. Tlie difference in the wing in some speci- 

 mens amounts to nearly two inches, and in none is it less than half an inch. 



2d. The bill is larger, longer and more robust. It is especially stouter at 

 the base. The angle is larger, more prominent and bulging ; but at tlie same 

 time it has not so pointed and well defined an apex. 



3d. The legs and feet are longer and stouter, perhaps even more so than 

 is proportional to the greater size of the bird. The entire dilference in the 

 length of the tarsus and middle toe amounts to but little less than half an 

 inch. 



The preceding differences, though marked, I should not consider, in the 

 absence of other distinctive features, as of specific value. The following dis- 

 crepancies I find it impossible not to regard as conclusive. 



4th. In the European bird, when adult, the first primary has a white ter- 

 minal space just about two inches long. (Tliis is precisely as in califoniicus, 

 the similarity being further heightened by tlie fact that in young birds there 

 is a narrow transverse bar, which gradually resolves itself into two small 

 spots or scollops, and finally disappears.) The second primary has a rounded 

 white spot about three-fourths of an inch in diameter, invading both vanes, 

 but divided into two by the black shaft. In the Amei-ican bird the first 

 primary has a rounded white spot (of much the same size and character as 

 that on the stcond primaiy of the European bird) entirely distinct and sep- 

 arated from the white apex, which is very small. The second primary has no 

 white sub-terminal spot ; or if one is present (which is rarely the case in 

 very old birds) it is exceedingly small. 



Now it may be urged, that these differences have been noted, but disre- 

 garded as of no value, the nature of the ti'rminal markings on the wings of 

 gulls being considered "notoriously inconstant." There is in the Smith- 

 sonian collection perhaps the most extensive series of American Herring 

 gulls ever brought together. In no single specimen of the series have I ever 

 observed the slightest approach to the large white apical space on the first 

 primary which exists in the European bird ; — constantly, so far as I have op- 



1862.] 




^98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



portunities for judging. While the bird is undergoing tlie changes incident 

 to its arriving at maturity, there are great and indeed endless variations in the 

 precise character of the primaries. All, however, uniformly tend towards the 

 same result ; and in fully adult birds tltt-nf. characters are constant. 



I find no material differences in the character of the extent of the bluish 

 markings of the bases of the primaries. 



The above points would seem to be sufficient to establish the position as- 

 sumed, but there is another argument of a different character which, in con- 

 nection with the preceding, seems i|uite conclusive. The Herring Gulls of both 

 continents differ from i\i& Larus g'.ancus, leucopterus, etc., in being essentially 

 southern birds. They go north to breed only, returning again as soon as the 

 duties of incubation are concluded, and moreover, do not proceed very far 

 north. The American bird, at least, is found but sparingly, if at all, north of 

 Cape Chidleigh, on the coast of Labrador, and is more numerous somewhat 

 farther south. The Larus glaucus, leiKopterus, Payophila eburnea, etc., are 

 entirely boreal birds, inhabiting the regions about the arctic circle, coming 

 south only when forced to do so by the severity of winter. In view of this 

 fact, it would be improper to presume upon the specific distinction of the two 

 birds, unless very strongly marked and constant characters were found. 

 Reasoning by analogy, it would be natural to suppose that two birds, separate I 

 by the breadth of the ocean, might very probably be distinct ; and discrepancies 

 which in the case of truly boreal birds would be of little importance, might 

 under other circumstances be of specific value.* 



In view of the above facts, I have not hesitated to separate the two birds. 

 If the position assumed should be hereafter substantiated by more extended 

 investigation, it will be interesting as bearing upon the law which regulates 

 the identity or non-identity of birds of the two continents, which does not ap- 

 pear to be as yet thoroughly understood. 



With regard to the previous comparisons which have been instituted be- 

 tween the two birds, in which no differences have been discovered. It seems 

 that this might have arisen in two ways. In the first place, authors who were 

 " impressed with the differences of the markings of the primary in the same species 

 at different ages, might have considered these differences in the two species 

 as equally accidental, and consequently entirely overlooked them, considering 

 them as of no value whatever. The birds in ether respects are so generally 

 similar, that they might readily be thought identical. Again, when we are 

 informed that absolutely no differences could be discovered, is it not very pro- 

 bable that the European bird was compared with Northern white-tipped-pri- 

 maried stype, the color of the legs not being apparent in dried skins ? For 

 example : — this is certainly the case in the comparison made by Wm. Thomp- 

 son, Esq. (See " Natural History of Ireland, Birds, vol. iii. page 367, copied 

 from the Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London, for 1835, page 83.) 

 The comparison is here made of "six matui-e specimens of the Herring- 

 Gull of the north of Ireland " with the description given in the Fauna Boreali- 

 Americana. As Richardson does not particularly mention the character of the 

 bluish markings on the bases of the primaries, and gives the legs as flesh 

 colored, there was no difficulty in referring the European specimens to the 

 description. On account of the difference of size of the subterminal spot on 

 the second primary of the two wings of the same individual, the author in- 

 fers that "this marking is so inconstant that it should not be relied on as a 

 character." Both spots, however, were present ; and I have noticed the same 

 difference in the two wings of californicw, and even the presence of a minute 

 white dot on the second primary of one wing of i>. Smi!li<onianus, and its ab- 

 sence from that of the other, without considering it as in the least invalidat- 



* Ii is due to Prof. Baird to acknowledge that the theory is not original v.ith myself. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



ing the claims of these markings to be considered as of value. The radical 

 difference still exists. 



But if then the terminal marking of the primaries of californias are like 

 those of the European argentatus, and the two species are nearly identical in 

 size and general robustness, what are the differences between these two 

 species ? Briefly as follows : The European argentatw, though less robust 

 than the apicalis, does not exhibit that decided approach to the " new gull " 

 type indicated in the californicus by its greenish legs. Though the terminal 

 markings of the primaries are quite identical, the character of the bluish bases 

 differ decidedly. In californicus this color is very light, so much so as to be 

 almost white. It runs up further on the primaries (especially on the first), 

 and with a different pattern, its edge being nearly parallel with the shaft for 

 the greater part- of its length, and then turning off' suddenly at au angle to the 

 edge. It runs up nearly as far on the edge of the feather as in the middle. 

 Now in the European argentatus (and also in Smithsonianns,) this color is but 

 little lighter than the mantle ; runs an oblique course to the edge of the 

 leather ; and goes further up centrally than at the edge of the inner vane, 

 •where the terminal olackish descends for a little distance as a narrow margin. 

 Moreover, in californicus the line of ilemarcation of the two colors is very 

 distinct and decided, while in argentatus, they are more blended at their 

 union. In discussing this point, the habitat of the californicus should not be 

 lost sight of. 



With regard to the name by which this species is to be designated : — 



So far as I have been able to ascertain, the species has never been desig- 

 nated by any other name than that of L. argentatus by American authors, it 

 having been always considered by them as identical with the European 

 species of Briinuich. 



The Laroides americanus, Brelim, might perhaps be considered to refer to 

 this species. It is, however, evidently quite a different bird. The brief 

 diagnosis of Brehm is as follows : " Unterscheidet sich von Laroides argenta- 

 toides Brehm durch den etwas kleinern Schnabel und der noch weiter hirsten 

 erhuhten scheitel." Now the Laroides argentatoides of Brehm is said by that 

 author, "vor alien vorhergehenden " — L. major, argentatus and argenteus — 

 "au ihrem kleinen Schnabel und iiusserst hohen scheitel zu erkennen." 

 Thus, the L. americanus of Brehm is a bird with a much smaller bill even 

 than L. argentatoides of that author, and therefore cannot possibly be the 

 species now under consideration, which has a larger bill than argentatus, 

 Briinuich. I regard it as not at all impossible that Brehm should have based 

 his species {americanus) on a small specimen of L. californicus, hut his diag- 

 nosis is so brief and unsatisfactory that I do not see how the identity of the 

 two names is to be proved positively. 



The Laroides argentatoides, Brehm, is given by Bonaparte and some other 

 authors as the ^'Larus argentatus ex America," which would make it the bird 

 now under consideration. Brehm's description, however, gives no tangible 

 points of difference, and the measurements indicate a bird rather smaller in- 

 stead of larger than the argentatus, Briinn. The distinctive characters from 

 "rgentatiis are summed up as lying in the smaller size, smaller bill and higher 

 forehead ; — features quite at variance with those presented by the species now 

 under consideration. Moreover, the expression "sie ist nurdlichate unter 

 alien silbermuven," proves decisively the non-identity of the two. I have 

 been unable to find any other name whiih could by any possibility be referred 

 to this species. . 



There is, in the collection of the United States Exploring Expedition, (Vin- 

 cennes and Peacock.) a Gull labelled as having been obtained in Oregon. The 

 .specimen presents the characters of the present species typically, agreeing 

 perfectly with eastern skins. This locality- I was at first disposed to consider 

 as erroneous, but very recently specimens received from J. Hepburn. Esq., of 



186-J.] 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



San Francisco, collected in that immediate vicinity, would seem to demon- 

 strate the existt-nce of the species on the Pacific as well as on the Atlantic 

 coast. The specimens I have compared critically with an eastern series, and 

 have been unable to detect the slightest difference. They appear to be abso- 

 lutely identical. A circumstance that would seem to coniirm the belief that 

 the present species does extend quite across the continent is the fact that 

 there are vindoubted specimens in the collections of Messrs. Kennicott and 

 Ross from localities whose general avi-faunais rather of a western than of an 

 eastern type. Should the existence of this bird on the Pacific slope be satis- 

 factorily demonstrated, its habitat may properly be given as the "Continent 

 of North America." 



I beg leave to dedicate this species to that Institution whose material for 

 the illustration of North American ornithology, unequalled in richness and 

 extent, has so greatly increased our knowledge in this department of Natural 

 History. And the name seems not inappropriate, for, as there is scarcely a 

 lake or river in North America which does not furnish sustenance to this Uull 

 at some period of its extensive migrations, so there is hardly a locality, how- 

 ever remote or inaccessible, v.hich has not yielded its varied productions to 

 the Smithsonian Institution, until its collections afford every facility for the 

 study of the Natural History of our Continent. 



II. A large white apical space on first primary in adult birds. Legs dusky 

 olivaceous, the webs bright chrome. 



9. Lakus Califoknicus Lawrence. 



L, ar(je)itatoldes, Bp. 1828 et Richardson, 1831; nee Brehm. L. Cali- 

 fornicus, Lawr. 1854 et 1858. Laroides Calif. Bp. 1856. 



Sp. char. — Bill moderately stout and strong, the angle well developed ; 

 varying considerably in size, larger than in Delawarensis, sometimes nearly 

 equalling argentutns. Tarsus equal to or slightly longer than the middle toe 

 and claw. Adult : Bill chrome yellow, tinge with greenish, a vermillion 

 spot on the lower mandible at angle ; a black spot just above it, forming with 

 another small black spot, sometimes present on the upper mandible, an im- 

 perfect band. Legs olivaceous greenish or yellowish, the webs chrome. Mantle 

 pearl blue, much as in brach/jrhi/nchiif, lighter than in canus (Linn.), perhaps a 

 little darker than in argentatus. Primaries: bases of all light bluish white, almost 

 white internally, especially on the outer ; and of great extent en all the prima- 

 ries ; first with a white space at the end about two inches long, the shaft white 

 along the white portion of the feather ; second with a white spot near the end. 

 on the whole of the inner and most of the outer web, divided by the black 

 shaft ; tips of all white ; black forming merely a narrow subterminal band on 

 the sixth. Tijis of inner primaries, of the secondaries and tertials, white. Di- 

 mensions, (average, for they vary greatly) wing 15-50 ; bill nearly 2'00 ; taT- 

 sus 2-30. Female smaller. 



Huhitat. — California ; Pacific coast ; Arctic America, internally ; breeds 

 about Great Slave Lake. 



The following is the argument in favor of the synonymy adduced : 



In the first place, argentatoide^ of Bonaparte's Synopsis (1828), and of Rich- 

 ardson (1831), are the same bird, since the latter quotes the former as au- 

 thority for the name, and the diagnosis and descriptions of the two agree 

 perfectly. Now, in the collection there are numerous specimens of the fully 

 adult bird from Arctic America, from localities not far distant from those 

 where Richardson's specimens were procured. These specimens agree pre- 

 cisely with Richardson's descriptions of ar g ent at aides * and correspond very 



* If it be objected that the expression " six outer quills crossed by a brownish black 

 bar, which takes in nearly the whole of the first one" is not correct, I refer to several 

 other descrip:ions of Richardson, (his canus and others,) where it is evident that he doe« 



[June. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



nearly with the measurements.* I think, then, that there can be no reason- 

 able doubt of the propriety of referring the large northern specimens to the 

 firgentatoides of Richardson and Bonaparte. These same specimens were, 

 immediately upon their reception, referred unhesitatingly to Calif'irnicus of 

 Lawrence, by both Prof. Baird and myself. We have critically examined 

 them, and find it impossible to distinguish them from undoubted specimens 

 of Californicus. 



The size is somewhat greater ; but not more so than would be expected 

 from the much more northern habitat of the specimens examined ; and, more- 

 over, the numerous specimens differ among themselves to a remarkable de- 

 gree, the smallest of the northern ones not exceeding the largest of the 

 southern. Thus, though a large northern bird and a small southern differ so 

 much that it would seem quite reasonable to separate them, there are found 

 intermediates of every grade of dimensions. The upper parts of the northern 

 bird are, perhaps, a shade lighter than are California specimens ; but other- 

 wise, we cannot appreciate the slightest distinctive characters. Now, it is not 

 improbable that the -e should be in America two species of white-tipped pri- 

 maried Gulls, the one from Arctic (and Eastern ?f) America and the other 

 from the Pacific, differing from each other, on an average, in size ; but in the 

 absence of tangible characters, I do not venture to separate the two. I there- 

 fore, at present, quote " Larus argentatoidcs, Bp. et Rich, nee Brehm" as 

 synonymous with " Californicus, Lawr.," leaving it to future investigation to 

 settle the point definitely. 



The only discrepancy to be reconciled^ in the description of Richardson, is 

 the statement "legs flesh-colored " The legs of Californicus are of a dusky 

 olivaceous greenish or yellowish, their interdigital membranes bright chrome 

 yellow, with a slight tinge of green. In this respect, as well as in a general 

 less powerful and robust organization, weaker bill, &e., it shows an evident ap- 

 proach to the "Mew Gulls" {Delaivarensis, camia^ &c.), and apparently forms 

 the connecting-link between the powerful Herring Gulls, with their robust 

 bills and flesh-colored legs, and the group of which canus is the type.J But 

 Mr. Lawrence himself, in his description given in the General Report, says 

 also "legs flesh-colored," though the color is given correctly in the Ann. N. 

 Y. Lye. N. H. The descriptions of both these authors were most probably 

 drawn up from the dried skins, in which, as attested by a large series before 

 me, the legs appear of a dingy undefinable color, which might readily be sup- 

 posed to be the change produced in drying of the flesh color. My authority 

 for the statement as to the color of the legs, is the labels attached to the 

 specimens, containing the color of bills, eyes, legs, &c., taken from the recent 

 bird before skinning. 



The type of Cal ifomicus has been kindly furnished by Mr. Lawrence for 

 examination. It is moulting, and some of the primaries are not fully grown 

 out. The white apical space on the first primary is interrupted by a narrow 

 transverse bar of black. Another specimen before me is in precisely the 

 same condition. In other skins of the series the black bar is resolved into 



not take into special consideration the character of the extent of the bluish white bases 

 lit" the quills; and since the black nearly occupies the whole of the outer web of the 

 first, he would not have particularly noticed the extent to which the bluish white runs 

 tip on the inner vane. 



* 1 am inclined to think that Richardson drew up his measurements and descriptions 

 from the largest as well as the most perfect specimens, since, in several instances, the 

 measurements seem above the average, though not exceeding the dimensions of large 

 individuals. 



t Bonaparte (Syn., 1828, 360) sa3-s his argentatoifles is " common near New York and 

 Philadelphia." 



t This fact is also an argument for the impropriety of separating the two groups gene 

 ncally, as has been done by some authors. 



18G2.J 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



two little spots, then into a slight indentation at the edge of the feather, 

 which finally disappears altogether, leaving the apex of the first primary 

 purely and uninterruptedly white for nearly two inches. 



Independently of the difference in size, character of bill and color of legs, 

 the present species may readily be distinguished from the American Herring- 

 Gull by the difi'erent markings of the primaries, (compare descriptions.) 



If it be an error to refer the argentatoides of Richardson to the Cali/ornicus, 

 or, in other words, if there be a true Herring-Gull in the north with flesh- 

 colored legs, I do not know by what characters it could be separated from the 

 true European argentatun. (See comparison of CaUf&rnicus and aryentatus, 

 under head of L. Smithsonianns.) 



The name argentatoides of Bonaparte and Richardson is of coarse of prior 

 date to Californicus of Lawrence. The latter name, however, obtains, of 

 Brehm's having first applied the name argentatoides to a variety, perhaps only 

 accidental, of the European argentatus, of which it necessarily becomes a 

 synonym. 



Brehm's description of his argentatoides applies pretty well to Californicus, 

 but it is evident that it cannot refer to the latter, for he says of it, tliat 

 "brutet an der scheve dischen, Norwegischen und Danischen kaste, " — a 

 statement entirely at variance with all that is at present known of the geo- 

 graphical distribution of Californicus. 



Bonaparte, in his conspectus (1856), under head of Z. ar^anfa^o/des, (re- 

 ferring to his Synopsis of 1828,) gives, among other characters, the smaller 

 size, the tarsus only two inches, ^{remigibus nigris, apice, primce latissimo, 

 albis.^' This is precisely the character of Californicus. The tarsus of Z. Smith- 

 soni'inus is nearly or quite two and a half inches long ; that of L. argentatus 

 about two and a quarter ; while that of Californicus is just about two inches. 



b. Smaller; bill less robust; angle less prominent; legs dusky bluish 

 green. "Mew Gulls." (Including L. canus, the type of Linnaeus' 

 Larus.) 



10. Larus Delawarensis Ord. 



Larus iJelaioirensis, Ord, 1815 ; Lawr. 1858, (excl. synon. aliq.) L. canui, 



Bouap. Syn. 1828; (nee Linn.; nee Richards.; nee Nutt.) L, zono- 



rhijnchus, Richardson, 1831 ; Aud. 1842 (excl. synon.), Bp. 1S56 (excl. 



synon.) Glaucus zonorh. Bruch, 1S53. Gavina zonorh. 1S55. 



Sp. char. — Bill encircled with black near the end. Tarsus a fourth longer 



than the middle toe. Mantle light pearl blue. Spot on the outer primaries 



small, not larger on the outer than on the inner web. In winter the head 



and neck spotted (not sti'eaked nor nebulated) with dusky. Length 19"75 



inches ; extent 48-50 ; wing 14-75. Bill above 1-70 ; gape 2-30 ; tarsus 2-05 : 



toe 1-80. 



Habitat. —North America, generally. Puget's Sound. All along the Atlantic 

 coast. Texas and interior. 



It is necessary to exclude the synonyms of many of the authors adduced, 

 since most of them quote canas and brachyrhynchus of Richardson as the 

 young. (See next species.) 



11. Larus brachyrhynchus Richardson. 



'/Larus niveus, Pall. 1811. Larm canus, Richardson, 1S31, ad (nee Bp. 



Syn. 1828; nee Linn, et auct. ), Nuttall, 1834, Larus brachyrhynchus. 



Richardson, 1831, juv. Larus Suckleyi, Lawrence, 1858. Rissa {.') sep- 



tentrionalis, Lawrence, 1858. 



Sp. cAar. — Bill small, somewhat stout for its length, much shorter than tht 



head or tarsias. Upper mandible straight to the end of the nostrils, moderately 



convex to the tip, rather more so than in canus. Angle comparatively more 



developed than in canus, the lower outline considerably concave posterior to 



[June. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



it. somewhat so before it. Commissure about straight to near the tip. Tarsus 

 about equal to middle toe and claw. Adult : Bill bluish green, its terminal 

 third bright yellow. Legs and feet duskj bluish green, the webs yellowish. 

 Mantle light grayish blue, or dark pearl blue ; a shade lighter than in camts, 

 much darker than in Delawarensi^i. Primaries : The bluish gray bases rather 

 lighter than in canus, much darker than in Delawarensis, but fading into nearly 

 pure white on all but the first, at its juncture with the black portion. These 

 bluish gray bases extend towards the end much further than in canus, as far 

 as in Delawarensis ; and, as in that species, extend on the second, third and 

 fourth feather further along the centre of the feather than on the edges, so 

 that they are bordered for some distance with the black of the terminal por- 

 tions. The black takes in the outer web of the first primary, and nearly the 

 whole of the inner, but rapidly becomes narrower, till on the sixth it is merely 

 a subterminal transverse bar ; the seventh has frequently a spot of black on 

 one or both webs ; fir.'^*, with a large white spot near the end, two inches long, 

 longer on the outer than on the inner web, not divided by the black shaft ; 

 the tip of the feather black ; second, with a similar spot, bat smaller, not 

 longer on the outer than on the inner web, and divided by the black shaft : 

 the extreme tip white, as are the apici'S of all the others except the first. 

 Dimensions: Length 17'50 ; extent 40-00; wing 13-75. Bill above 1-40; 

 along gape 2-00 ; height at nostril and at angle "35 ; tarsus and middle toe 

 and claw 1-80. 



Habitat. — Interior of Arctic America. North Pacific Coast. 

 I have before me the type specimen of Richardson's Larus hrachyrhynchus, the 

 original of this description in the Fauna Boreali-Amerieana, " a female, killed 

 on the 23d of May, 1826, at Great Bear Lake." "Some brown markings on 

 the tertiaries, primary coverts, and bastard wing, with an imperfect subter- 

 minal baron the tail, point it out as a young bird, most probably just com- 

 mencing its second spring. The rest of its plumage corresponds with that of 

 L, zonorhynchus, except that it wants the extreme white tips of the quill 

 feathers.'" The specimen is labelled " 2, May 23, 1826, Great Bear Lake," 

 and corresponds minutely with the above description. Richardson, however, 

 in drawing up the description from the young bird, fell into the error of 

 giving '^ remigihus apice concoloribus,^^ whereas, in the adults, the primaries 

 are as broadly tipped with white as in Delawarensis or camts. In the type the 

 bill is very short, perhaps less than in the average of even young birds ; but 

 there are specimens before me in which it is quite as short. 



A very careful comparison of the types of Larus Suckleyi and Rissa septen- 

 trionalis with the above specimen, and with the rery extensive series of all 

 ages in the collection, shows them to be absolutely identical, and proves that 

 the three names refer to one and the same species. 



The rather intricate discussion of the relationships of Larus niveus, Pallas, is 

 presented elsewhere. The amount of the other synonyms may be stated in 

 a word. There are in North America two species of "Mew-Gulls." One is 

 the Delaivarensis, Ord., zonorhynchus, Richd. The Other is a bird, the adult of 

 which Richardson mistook for the European canus, Linn, and so named it. 

 the young of which he chariicterized as L. brachyrhynchu-^. The error of 

 authors is in not recognizing two species, but considering canu-;. Rich., and 

 brackyrhynchiis, Rich., as intermediate ages, or varieties of sonor^^ncAHS, Eich. 

 As the name of ca««s is pre-occupied, brachyrhynchus, though based upon the 

 young bird, must stand for the North American species. 



Comparison of L. canux, Linn., of Europe, and L. brachyrhynchus, Rich., of 

 America. — Common characters : Small weak bills, without strongly developed 

 angle, or black band ; color of back nearly the same, subterminal" and apical 

 spots of primaries identical. Distinctive characters : brackyrhynchus has 

 the bill shorter and smaller, culmen more convex at the end, the 

 angle perhaps comparatively more developed. Size is less, gull blue, a little 

 1862.] 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



lighter. Bases of primaries very different, the blue is much lighter, fade? 

 into nearly white at its juncture with the black; extends for a greater dis- 

 tance, and runs up further in the centre than along tlie edges of the inner 

 vane ; tarsus about equal to the middle toe and claw, while in canus the tarsus 

 is a fourth longer, as in Delawarensis. The collections of Messrs. Kennicott 

 and Ross would seem to indicate that this gull is extremely abundant in the 

 interior of Arctic America. 



Genus II. Blasipus Bonaparte. 



Blasipus, Bp., 1852, fide Lawr. Bp., 1856, type Lams Heennani, Cass. 

 Adelarus, Bruch, 1853. Id., 1855, p. 



12. Blasipus Heerjiani, Bon. ex Cass. 



? Lams Belcheri, Vig., 1829. ? Lencophacus Belcheri, Bp., 1856 ; (nee 



"Adelarus Belcheri, Yig. ; fuUginos-u-i Gould" Bruch, 1853 et 1855). 



Larui Lleermani , Cass., 1852. ^/asiptis Z/eer?n., Bp.. 1856; Lawr., 1858. 



Adelarus Heerm. Bruch, 1853^ et 1855, excl. synon. 



Sp. Char. — Bill bright Vermillion, black from angle to tip. Head all round 



white, gradually merging on the neck to a plumbeous ash, which extends 



over the whole under parts (considerably lighter on the abdomen and under 



tail coverts,) and also on the rump, but which on the back and wings deepens 



into a plumbeous slate color. Tips of secondaries and tertials broadly white. 



Primaries black, the tips of all but the three outer ones white. Tail black, 



narrowly^ tipped with white. "Length about 17'50 inches; wings 13'50 ; 



tail 5-56." 



Habitat.— V&Qi&c Coast of North America; Puget's Sound; California; 

 Mazatlan, Mex. 



Genus III. Rissa Leach. 



Lams, Linnseus, 1758, (nee 1744, nee 1735, fide Gray.) 

 Gavia, Boie, 1822, (nee Moehr. 1752.) 

 Rissa, Leach, 1825, (typus Larusri''><a, Briinn.) 

 Cheimonea, Kaup, 1829, (typus idem.) 

 Pulocondora Reichenbach, fide Bp. 



13. Rissa tkidactyla Bon. ex Linn. 



Larus rissa Briinn, 1764. L. tridaetyhiset rissa, Linn. 1766. L. torquatus, 

 L. gavia, et L. canus, Pall., 1811. Rissa Briinnichii, Leach, 1825. 

 R. ciiierea, Eyton. R. tridactt/la, Bon., ISSS, eta.nct. Gavia tridactyhi, 

 Boie, 1822. Cheimonea tridactyla, Kaup, 1829. 



ISp. Char. — Bill rather longer than the tarsus, nearly equal to the middle 

 toe without the claw, stout at the base, tapering somewhat towards the tip, 

 which is rather acute and attenuated. Convexity of culmen regular and 

 gradual. Angle at symphysis very moderately developed. Color of bill light 

 yellow, clouded with olivaceous. Head and neck all round, under parts and 

 tail pure white. Mantle rather dark bluish or cinereous gray, the tertiaries 

 and secondaries of the same color nearly to their tips, which are white. 

 Primaries : the first very light bluish white, without white apex, its outer 

 web and its inner web for about two inches from the tip black ; second like 

 the first, but without the black outer web, its tip being black for nearly the 

 same distance as the first, its apex with a minute white spot ; on the third 

 and fourth the black tips grow shorter, while the apices are more broadly 

 white ; this lessening of the black on each feather is exactly jiroportional to 

 the shortening of the successive quills, causing the bases of all the black 

 tips to be in the same straight line. A subapical black spot is usually pres- 

 ent on one or both webs, but is sometimes absent. Legs and feet dusky olive. 

 Young : Bill black. An anteocular lunula, and a postocular spot, dusky 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



slate. A Lroad transverse bar across the neck behind, the whole of the 

 lesser and median wing coverts, the bastard quills, the tertiaries, except at 

 their edges, and a terminal bar on the tail, black. The four outer primaries 

 with their outer webs, outer lialf of inner webs, and tips for some distance 

 black, the rest of the feather pearly white. Tips only of the fifth and sixth 

 black, their extreme apices with a white speck. Dimensions : Wing 12'25. 

 Bill above 1-40 to 1-50, height at base '59, at angle "40 ; tarsus 1'30 middle 

 toe, and claw 1-SO. 



Habitat. — Arctic regions of both hemispheres, coming south in winter. 



A specimen has the circumrostral space as far back as the eyes a light 

 brownish ashy, in marked contrast to the adjoining white. The bill is stouter 

 tlian usual, and of a bright chrome. 



A comparison of this species with the succeeding will be found under the 

 head of the latter. 



14. RissA KoTZEBci Bon. 



rR. hrachijrhijncha, Bruch, 1853, nee Larus Lrachyrh. Gould. R. nivea 

 Bruch, 1S55, excl. synon. R. Kotzehui, Bp., 1856. R- br-evirostris, 

 ■'Brandt," Lawrence, partim, sed nee Brandt, quae potius species 

 sequens. 



■'Sp. Char. — Nearly adult. Bill rather long, and somewhat tapering towards 

 the tip, which is attenuated and decurved ; stout at the base, where it is much 

 deeper than at the angle ; culmen about straight to the nostrils, the con- 

 vexity beyond them to the tip very gradual and rather slight : gonys doubly 

 slightly concave, the angle but little developed, so as to hardly touch a chord 

 ■ Irawn from the tip of the lower mandible to the base : but its apex acute. 

 Bill light yellow, slightly tinged with olivaceous, its tip somewhat clouded 

 with dusky. The specimen described, as being not fully mature, has a post - 

 ocular spot, and the nape plumbeous gray, which color on the back of the 

 neck fades into the pure white which intervenes between it and the mantle. 

 Mantle gray-blue, with a leaden tinge, but several shades lighter than in 

 brachijThynchus. This color extends nearly to the tips of the tertiaries, but 

 hardly at all invades the secondaries, which are pearly white for nearly the 

 whole length. Piimaries : The shafts of all black, deepest on the outer ones ; 

 the first blackish-brown, its inner web dull white ^t the base, this white nar- 

 rowing as it ascends till it is lost an inch or two from the tip of the feather ; 

 there is no distinct line of demarcation between the two colors ; second the 

 color of the first, but the white broader, better defined, and ending abruptly 

 one and a half inches from the tip ; third and fourth with the white still 

 wider defined, and running up rather further on the feather ; fifth bluish 

 white, with a brownish black tip, half an inch long and a central field of 

 dusky along the shaft ; other primaries a lighter shade of the color of the 

 back, fading into white on the edges, without any black. An imperfect 

 subterminal bar on the tail, and dusky tips along the median wing coverts, 

 show the specimen to be immature. Tarsus shorter than the middle toe 

 without the claw ; the hind toe better formed than in R. triilacti/lu. Legs and 

 feet dnsky-olivaceus. (No. 21,287, S. I. Coll., from Semiavine Straits.) 



Another specimen (No. 15,695, from the N. W. coast of America) differs in 

 the following particulars : 



The bill, though stout at the base, is more tapering and attenuated at the 

 tip, which is more decurved ; and the convexity of the culmen is more gradual, 

 giving a somewhat different shape. The back is a rather darker shade of leaden 

 gray, approximating to A'. Irachi/rhiincha. The white of the inner vanes of 

 the outer primaries is broader, purer and more sharply defined. It agrees pre- 

 cisely in other particulars, the hind toe having the same developement. Dimen- 

 sions (of No. 21,287) : Bill along culmen 1-60 inches ; from apex of ancle to 

 1862] 21 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



tip of lower mandible "48 ; from nostrils to tip of npper mandible '72 ; depth 

 at base -55, at angle '42 ; width at base -33. Wing just 12 inches ; tarsus 1-35 : 

 toe and claw 1'90. Of No. 15,695, the same parts measure respectively, 1'68, 

 •56, 'DO, -54, -40, "40 ; wing, tarsus and toe about the same. 



Habitat. — Northwest coast of America. 



This species differs from the R. tridactyla chiefly in the shape of the bill and 

 in the greater dcvelopement of the hind toe. Its habitat is also quite different, 

 and I have not the slightest doubt of the propriety of separating that species. 

 From the R. hrackyrhi/ncha, Gould, of which I have before me typical speci- 

 mens, fully mature and in excellent preservation, it is totally distinct, the 

 characters differing in almost every respect. The size, shape and color of 

 the bill, the color of the mantle, the color of the feet and the markings of the 

 primaries are widely diverse in the two birds. It is unnecessary here to 

 specify these differences, as they may be seen by comparing the descriptions 

 given. 



While the characters of the species are thus so very distinct and well 

 marked, its synonymy is in a state of confusion only equalled, perhaps, by 

 that of the succeeding species ; and the proper name to be applied to it is a 

 matter of great uncertainty. The history of its synonyms is so intimately 

 blended with that of Rissa hrachyrhyncha, that the two may be most conve- 

 niently discussed together. The reasons for the adoption of the name which 

 I chose for this species may, however, be given here. 1 he essential charac- 

 ter of Bonaparte's R. Kotzehui is " simillima prsecedenti;" R. tridactyla, "sed 

 halluce magis ex plicato." The character of the hind toe is precisely the dis- 

 tinctive feature of the specimen now under consideration. Still there are some 

 discrepancies in Bonaparte's descrii>tion. The wings of the young birds before 

 me are not " black internally ;" th^- bill is not " very black," nor is the back 

 " remarkably variegated with black and white." Still, in a more immature 

 state of plumage than that exhibited by the specimens before me, these cha- 

 racters may exist ; and therefore, in spite of these discrepancies, I think it 

 advisable to adopt the name, especially as the imposition of a new one, other- 

 wise unavoidable, is thereby obviated. It is well known that at certain ages 

 the R. tridactyla assumes exactly the state of plumage described by Bonaparte: 

 and reasoning by analogy, in view of the close relationship of the two, it might 

 be eNpected that the same should occur in the present species. 



15. RiSSA BRACHYRHYSCHA (Gould. ) 



Lurus brack yrhynchus, Gould, P. Z. S. 1843. Rissa /uvea, Gr. secundum 

 Bp. ; (nee L. niveus, Pall. Rissa brevirostris, Brandt, secundum Bp. 

 Rissa ntvea, •' Bruch," Lawrence, (1858,) Gen. Rep. 855 ; sed nee Bru- 

 chii, quse species prjecedens. Descriptio Gouldii ipsius transcripta est. 

 Sp. char. — Adult : Bill a uniform clear light straw yellow, without any oliva- 

 ceous tinge ; very short, stout, wide at the base, upper mandible much curved, 

 though not acute nor attenuated ; the convexity of the culmen very great, 

 especially towards the tip, it being, from the nostrils to the tip, almost the 

 arc of a circle, whose centre is the apex of the angle at the symphysis ; gonys 

 but very slightly doubly concave, its angle but little developed. Tarsus not 

 much more than two-thirds the middle toe and claw. Wings exceedingly 

 long, reaciiing much beyond the tail. Head and neck all round, under parts 

 and tail pure white. Mantle deep leaden gray, much darker than in the pre- 

 ceding ; and this color extending to within half an inch of the tips of ihr 

 secondViries and tertials, which are white. Primaries : first primary with it^ 

 shaft and outer vane black, its inner vane with a space of dull gray (not 

 white), which, at the base, takes in nearly all the vane, but gradually nar- 

 lows, and, at aboi^t two and a half inches from the tip, ends by a well-defined 

 rounded termination about half as broad as the vane itself; second, the out*-r 

 vane is of the same leaden gray to within four inches of the tip ; the inner 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



vane wholly of a lighter shade of the same color to withiu three inches ; this 

 gray ends very abruptly, being almost truncated, as it were ; third, like the 

 second, but the gray extends further (nearly as far on the oiiter as on the 

 inner web), to within about two inches of the tip, which has a minute gray 

 apical spot ; fourth, wholly leaden gray to within one and a half inches of 

 the tip, which has a larger apical spot than the second ; fifth, the leaden gray 

 body of the feathers is separated from the well-defined and now white apex 

 by a hand of black, less than an inch long ; and the gray begius to be edged 

 internally with white : sixth, gray, fading into white at the tip and internal 

 border, with a small subapical spot of black on one or both webs ; other pri- 

 maries like the sixth, without any black. This "gray" of the primaries is 

 precisely the color of the mantle. Legs and feet in the dried specimen light 

 straw yellow ; probably tinged with coral red in life. Claws black. Dimen- 

 sions : Bill along culmen 1'19 inches; depth at base 'SO; width "42; depth 

 at ana;le same ; nostril to tip -60. Wing 13 -00 ; tarsus 1-25 : middle toe and 

 claw 1-95. (No. 24,296, S. I. Coll. from Kamtschatka.) 



Habitat. — Kamtschatka. 



This is a very strongly- marked species, and one which it is impossible to 

 confound with any other. The fine specimens before me agree in the minutest 

 particulars with Gould's description. Its peculiar characters of the shape of 

 the bill, its color and that of the feet, with the dark mantle and the peculiar 

 style of the markings of the primaries, separate it widely from any other Gull 

 with which I am ai^quainted. Having never seen the young bird, I am totally 

 unacquainted with the changes of plumage which the species undergoes. 



Having thus characterized the two species of Rissa from the Northwest 

 coast, I proceed to the difficult task of discussing their intricate synonyms. 

 While it is believed that the characters of the species are accurately given, 

 the hope is scarcely indulged that the synonyms are more correctly assigned 

 than they have hitherto been by previous authors. 



Concerning the proper location of no name has there been a greater dif- 

 ference of opinion among authors than of Lams niveits of Pallas ? Many writers 

 consider it a Rissa, and refer it to the R. hrachyrhynchi of Gould. Bonaparte 

 considers it a true Larus, and makes it a distinct species. I am decidedly of 

 opinion that it is a true Larus, and very closely allied to, if, indeed, not identical 

 with, the iari/s iracfu/rkyuchus, Richardson, of this paper. Let us examine the 

 characters given by Pallas. '* Rostrum virescente-flavum." There is no trace 

 of greenish in the bill of Risaa brackiirhyncha, which is a clear straw yellow. 

 " Pedes fusci." The feet of Rissa Irachyrhmcha are yellow, with a tinge oi 

 coral red. With his known accuracy of description, I'allas could hardly have 

 made such a mistake as this ; and hence, I do not see why Bruch has identi- 

 fied the bird with Rissa brackyrhyncha. In Pallas' description thus far, there 

 is nothing absolutely inconsistent with the characters of C. Kotzehui of this pa- 

 per. The description continues, however, ' ' apice alaerumnigro prsecedenti simil- 

 limus." The preceding species is L. cachiiuians, Pall., the description of the 

 primaries of which is, " remiges 1 ad ti extremitate nigrae, extim* seusim ulte- 

 rius ; duie extimje macula transversa alba et ajjice, 3 ad (i tantum apice albae." 

 This is the usual pattern of coloration of the primaries of HeTiug-Gulls, and 

 very different from that which obtains throughout the genus Rissa, being 

 equally inapplicable to either species of the genus. It is true that the plato 

 gives no indication ot these subapical spots on the primaries: but in tbe case 

 of confliit, the text siionld certainly have precedence. Is the bird, then, a 

 Rissa ? If we examine Pallas' descriptions of his Larus rissa, L. turquattts, cr 

 J^. gavia, we find that he is very careful to use the expressions "■ tridactylus" 

 and " subtridactylus," and it seems hardly probable that the rudimeutal cha- 

 racter of the hind toe would have passed unnoticed. The plate shows the 

 hind toe and claw as fully formed as many species ol Larus, and there is no 

 expression in the text contradicting it. While I am thus of opinion that the 

 lbt)2.] 




oOS PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



bird is a Lams. I by no means insist upon its reference to L. hrachyrhynchus, 

 Rich, although I have placed it as a synonym of that species, with a query, 

 in consequence of my inability to discover any material discreiDancies. The 

 question appears really to hinge upon the identity or non-identity of Larus 

 brack yrhijnchus with the Siberian type of L. camis, which is given by Midden- 

 dorff as a variety (viajor) of canus, in view of its larger bill and some other 

 peculiarities. I have little doubt of the propriety of referring L. niveus to 

 this Siberian Mew-Gul!. 



But, while I thus exclude Larus niveus of Pallas from the Rissce, the Rissa 

 nivea of Bruch and other authors is to be examined. Bruch says of his R. 

 7iivea of 1855, that it has the hind toe better developed ; and it is of another 

 species that he says "feet coral-red." While, therefore, he is in error in 

 adducing R. brachyrhyncha, Gould, as a synonym, his species is to be referred 

 (from its description) to the preceding species, — R. Kotztbui. 



I quote Rissa nivea, Gr. and Rissa hrevirostris, Brandt, as synonyms of the 

 species, on the authority of Bonaparte. 



In the General Report on Birds, Mr. Lawrence gives, under the head of Rissa 

 brevirostris, Brandt, a description taken from Bruch, which applies to the pre- 

 ceding species in most particulars, but the expression, "feet coral-red," is 

 only applicable to the present. Again, under head of Rissa nivea, Bruch, 

 which has been shown above to be the Kotzebui, he copies Gould's description 

 of R. brachyrhyncha. In other words, in his first species he has the synonymy 

 of the present and mostly the description of the preceding species ; and his 

 .«e(ond, the description of the present species and mostly the synonymy of the 

 preceding. Rissa sej^tentrionalis of Lawrence has been already adverted to. 



I am entirely ignorant of the characters and relationships of Larus citrirvs- 

 tris, Schimper. By Bonaparte it is placed as a synonym of Rissa brachyrhyncha ; 

 this author, perhaps, liaving overlooked the fact that he had already assigned 

 it, a few pages previously, to L. niveus, Pallas. Judging, however, from 

 Bruch's description and plate, it must be quite distinct from the present spe- 

 cies, as the bills diflfer widely in shape. Bruch says that Bonaparte's Z. lamt- 

 schatchensis is an "undoubted synonym" of Larus citrirostris. Bonaparte 

 himself places L. kamttichatchensis as a partial synonym of L. niveus, Pall. It 

 is not impossible, after all, that L. niveus should be distinct from the Mew- 

 Gulls (Larus canus major, Midd. and L. brachyrhynchus, Rich.) both of Siberia 

 and America, and yet be no Rissa, but form a good species, with Larus hamt- 

 schatckensis, Bp. and L. citrirostris, Schimper, as synonyms. This is the 

 opinion maintained by Bonaparte. 



In the preceding remarks I have endeavored to state the opinions of various 

 writers and my own, as fairly as possible ; considering that in this manner 

 truth is most likely to be attained. I do not profess to have settled so knotty 

 a point satisfactorily, even to myself; and, accordingly, am prepared to adopt 

 any modificatioMs of the views here expressed which future investigations may 

 require. 



Genus IV. Pagophii.a Kaiip. 



Gavia, Boie, 1822; (nee Moehr. 1752.) 

 Pagophila, Kaup, 1829, (typus Larus ei>urneus.) 

 Cetosparactes, Macgill. 1842, (tjpus idem.) 



16. Pasophila bburnea Kaup ex Grael. 



Larus eburneus, Gmel. 1788. Gavia eburnea, Boie, 1822. Pagophila ebur- 

 nea, Kaup, 1829 ; Lawr. 1858. Cetosparactes eburnea, Macgill. 1842. 

 Larus candidus, Fabricius, 1780. Larus niveus, Mart, fide Bp. ; (nee 

 Pall. 1811.) 

 Sp. char. — Culinen straight to the nostrils, then regularly convex ; commis- 

 sure gently curved to the tip, where it is greatly decurved ; gonys straight to 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



near the anprle, which is well developed, the outline from anwle to tip perfectly 

 straight. Feathers extending between the rami nearly to the angle. Wings 

 long and pointed, reaching beyond the tail ; primaries gradually attenuated to 

 the tip. Adult: Entirely pure white, the shafts of the primaries straw yellow. 

 Bill dusky greenish yellow at tip, and along the cutting edges. Legs ar.d feet 

 black. Length 19-50 inches; wing 13-25; bill above 1'40, along gape 2-10, 

 height at nostrils -45 ; tarsus about 1-45 (varying) ; middle toe and claw 1-75. 

 Habitat. — Northern coasts of both continents. 



17. Pagophila bkachttarsus Bruch ex Holb. 



Larus brachyiarsus, Holb. 1846. Pagophila brach. Bruch, 1855. P. brachy- 

 tarsi. Lawr. 1858. Larusniveus, Brehm, fide Bp. ; (nee Pall. 1811.) Pa(jo- 

 phila niveus, Bp. 1856. 



Sp. char. — "Bill yellow, with a darker tip. The long wings, which when 

 folded reach two and a half inches beyond the tail, are distinguished from those 

 of all other Gulls by the extraordinary breadth of the four first primaries. 

 Color snow-white, with or without dark brown spots. Feet and webs black, 

 the latter very deeply excised. Length 17 inches; extent 40 ; tail 5 ; tarsus 

 one inch : middle toe 1-75. Breadth of outer primary four inches from tip 1'23.'' 



Habitat. — " Greenland." 



Never having seen a specimen of this supposed species, I have nothing to 

 offer with regard to its relationships to the P.eburnea. The description is com- 

 piled from Holboll's original account. 



Genus V. Chroicocephalds Eyton. 

 Xema, Boie, 1822 ; (nee Leach, 1818.) 



Gavia, Kaup, 1829 ; (typus L. ridibundus ; nee Moehr. 1752.) 

 Ichthyaetus, KuMp, 1829; (t. L. ichthyaetiis^ VdU.) 

 Hydrocoloeus, Kaup, 1829 ; (t. L. minutus, Pall.) 

 Chroicocephalus, Eyton, 1836 ; (t. L. capistratus, Temm. fide Gray.) 

 Gavia, Macgill. 1842, p. (Nee Moehr. 1752.) 

 Atricilla, Bonap. 1854; (t. Atricilla Catesbyi, Bp ) 

 Cirrhoccphabis, Bruch, 1855 : (t. L. cirrhocephalus, Vieill.) 

 A. — Large ; bill rather stout, tip much decurved ; middle toe and claw three- 

 fourths the tarsus. 



18. Chroicocepbalus atricilla Lawr. ex Linn. • 



Larus atricilla, Linn. 1766. L. ridibundus, Wils. ; (nee Linn.) L. major, 

 Catesb. Atricilla Catesbyi, Bonap. (fide Bruch.) Chroico. atricilla, Lawr. 

 1858. 

 Sp. char. — Bill deep carmine. Hood deep plumbeous, grayish black, extend- 

 ing further on the throat than on the nape. Eyelids white posteriorly. Mantle 

 grayish plumbeous. Length 16-50 inches; wing 13; bill above 1-75; tarsus 

 2-00; middle toe and claw 1-50. 



Habitat. — More southern portions of Atlantic coast of North America. Texas. 



B. — Medium ; tarsus equal to the middle toe and claw. 



19. Chroicocephalus cdcullatus Bruch ex Licht. 



Larus pipixcan, Wagler. L. melanorhynchus , Temm. fide Bruch. Chroicoce- 

 phalus cucullat us, Brach, 1855; Lawr. 1858. 

 Sp. char. — Bill very short, scarcely more than two-tbirds the head, about 

 three-fourths the tarsus, moderately stout, the culmen regularly curved from 

 base to tip ; angle well defined and very prominent. Adult: hood deep plum- 

 beous black, barely encircling the head, not extending further on the throat 

 than on the nape. Lower eyelid white, upper more broadly so, the white ex- 

 tending behind the eye. Mantle bluish j)lumbeou8, as in Fraiiklinii, withmore 

 blue than in atricilUi. Primaries: Shafts of three outer black, of the inner 



1862.] 




olO PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADETtlY OF 



light colored ; first, outer web wholly black, inner a rather lighter ashy than 

 the black to within about three inches from the tip ; second, like the first, but 

 the base of the outer web the color of the inner; on the third, fourth and fifth 

 the black gradually decreases in extent, till on the sixth it is merely a narrow, 

 subterminal bar; the tips of all are white, smallest on the first, increasing 

 successively on the others. Three lateral tail-feathers white, the others light 

 pearl blue, deepest on the central. Bill deep carmine, crossed with black near 

 the end, the extreme tip yellowish. Legs and feet red. Wing 11-25 ; bill above 

 1-20 ; along gape 1*70 ; tarsus or middle toe and claw 1-.50. 

 Habitat. — Central America: Panama, (Suckley) ; Louisiana. (Wurdemann.) 

 Closely allied to Ch. Franklinii and much resembling it. Easily to be distin- 

 guished by the characters of the primaries, as will be sten by comparing the 

 descriptions given. 



20, Chroicocephalus Fbanklixii Bruch ex Richardson. 



Larus Franklinii, Richard. 1831. Chroicocephalus FranMitiii, Bruch, 1855. 



Sp. Char. — Bill comparatively longer and slenderer than in cucullatus. the 

 tip more attenuated and decorved. The angle well defined and acute ; but the 

 depression of the tip makes it less prominent, gonys from angle to tip concave. 

 Adult : Mouth and bill bright carmine, the latter crossed with black near the 

 end. Feet dusk}- carmine. Edges of eyelids orange. A conspicuous white 

 patch above and below the eye, and behind it. Hood deep plumbeous black, 

 encircling the upper part of the neck as well as the head, and extending much 

 further on the throat than nape. Mantle as in cucullatus. Primaries : Shaft 

 of first white, of others white except along the black portions of the feathers ; 

 first, its outer web black to within an inch of the end, its inner pearly white, 

 crossed by a black bar near the end, the tip white for almost an inch : next 

 five crossed by a black bar near the end, two inches wide near the end. gradu- 

 ally narrowing to a black spot on the sixth ; bases of all the color of the back 

 fading into white along the outer edge of the inner vane and adjoining black 

 portions ; tips of all white. Tail feathers as in cucullatus. Length 14 inches, 

 extent 35, wing 11-25. Bill above 1-25, gape 1-75, tarsus or middle toe and 

 claw 1-60. 



Habitat. — Interior of Arctic America ; Nebraska ; Texas ; Mexico. 



21. Chroicocephalcs Philadelphia Lawrence ex Ord. 



Sterna Philadelphia, Ord, 1815. Chroicocephalus Philada., Lawrence, 1858. 

 Larus capistratus, Bonap., 1828. L. Bonapartei, Richardson, 1831. 

 Chroicocephalus Bonapartei, Bruch, 1855. 

 Sp. Char. — Bill shorter tbau the head or tarsus, much compressed, slender, 

 and sternine. Both mandibles with a slight but distinct notch near the tip. 

 Nostrils linear, exceedingly narrow. Adult : Bill black ; mouth carmine : legs 

 and feet chrome, tinged with vermillion. Webs bright coral red. Hood 

 plumbeous slate, not so deep as in Franklinii, enveloping the head and upper 

 part of the neck, reaching further before than behind. White patches on eye- 

 lids narrow. Mantle pearl blue, much lighter than in Franklinii or cvcvllatus. 

 not so light as in minutus. Ends of the tertials and scapulars scarcely lighter 

 than the back. Primaries: Shafts of the first five or six white except at their 

 extreme tips, the others dark colored ; first, outer web and extreme tip black, 

 rest white; second, white, its tips black for a greater distance than the first. 

 f\nd on one or both webs, for a greater or less distance (sometimes half way 

 down the feather) narrowly bordered with blai k ; third, fourth, fifth, sixth, 

 black at the ends for about the same distance on each, the black bordering the 

 inner web much further than the outer ; the inner webs of the third and fourth, 

 and both webs of the fifth and sixth, of a rather lighter shade of the color of 

 the back. Other primaries like the back, the seventh and eighth with a touch 

 of black on one or both webs. Length 14 inches, extent 32, wing 10-25, Bill 

 above 1-20, gape 1 75, tarsus or middle toe and claw 1-40, 

 Habitat. — Entire continent of North America. 



[June 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



Does the female of this species have a brown head ? I am inclined to the 

 contrary opinion. If Audubon's assertion to the fact of having seen Gulls 

 with brown heads be true, tbev were probably of a differe'jt species. 



[All the preceding species of Chroicocephalus acquire during the breeding 

 season, a beautiful delicate rosy blush on the white of the under parts.] 



C. — Very sraall; bill exceedingly slender and compressed; tarsus shorter 

 than the middle toe and claw. 



22. Chroicoceph.\lus Mixcrrs Bruch ex Gmel. 



Lanis, minutus, Gmel. 1788. ffi/di-ocokvus tniniitus, KAup, 1329. Xema minu- 

 tum, Bp. 1838. Gavia minuta, Macgill. 1842. Chroicocephalus minutus. 

 Bruch, 1855. Larus melanotis, Lesson, fide Bruch. 



Sp. Char. — Smallest of the genus. Length 1150. Bill above -90, along gape 

 1-40 ; tarsus, -90, middle toe and claw 1-10. Under surface of wings deep blackish 

 slate. 



Habitat. — Europe. ? Northern North America (accidental.) 

 Professor Baird thinks that there is no good reason to consider this bird an 

 inhabitant of or even a visitor to North America. It has been included in our 

 fauna on the strength of a statement of Sabine, who saw a small Gull, with 

 black head and bill, greatly resembling the Larus minutus. This, however, was 

 before Larus Bonaparlei {Chroicocephalus Philadelphia) was described and made 

 known by Richardson in the F. B. A., and a poorly preserved or immature speci- 

 men might easily be referred to Larus minutus by one ignorant of the existence 

 of two species. 



Genus VI. Rhodostethia Macgill. 

 Rossia,Bp. 1838; (nee Owen.) 

 Rhodostethia, Macgill. 1842 ; (t. Larus roseus Macgill.) 



23. Rhodostethia rosea Bp. ex Macgill. 



Larus roseus, 'MucgiU. 1824; descriptio nulla. Jihndostcthia rosea, Bp. Ros- 

 sia rosea, Bp. 1837. Larus Rossii. Richardson, 1825 ; descriptio hujus avis 

 prima. Rhodostethia Rossii, Mai'gill. 1824. 



Sp. Char. — " Scapulars, inter-icapulars, and both surfaces of the wings clear 

 pearl gray ; outer web of the first quill blackish brown to its fip^ which is gray ; 

 tips of the scapular and lesser quills whiiish. Some sraall feathers near the eye, 

 and a collar round the middle of the neck, pitch-black. Rest of plumage white, 

 The neck above and whole under plumage deeply tinged with peach blossom red 

 in recent specimens. Bill black, its rictus and the edges of the eyelids reddish 

 orange. Legs and feet vermillion red : uails blackish. Length 14 inches, wing 

 10-5, tail 5-5. Bill above, -75, along gape 1.25, tarsus 1. — 1-12." (Richardson). 



Ilabilat. Arctic Regions. 



We have never had the pleasure of examining a specimen of this exquisite Gull, 

 and are therefore obliged to copy the description fron) Richardson. Tiiis au- 

 thor admits that the bird was named Larus roseus the year before he called it 

 L. Rossii; but claims precedence for his name, on the ground that his was the 

 first published description. 



Genus VII. Xema Leach. 

 Xema, Leach, 1818 ; (fide Gen. Rep. t. Larus Sabini, J. Sab.) 

 Gavia Macgill. 1842. p. 



24. Xema Sabini Leach ex Sab. 



Larus Sabini, J. Sab. 1818. Xema Sabini, Leach, 182.'). Gavia Sabini Mac- 

 gill. 1842. 



Sp. Char. — Adult, breeding plumage. Bill black to the angle, abruptly bright 

 chrome from angle to tip. Mouth bright orange; eyelids orange ; legs and feet 

 black. Hood uniform clear deep slate, bounded inferiorly bv a band "narrowest 



1862.] 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



on the nape, of deep velvety black. Lower parts of neck all round, tail and its 

 coverts, four inner primaries, secondaries, greater part of greater coverts, tips 

 of tertials, except the innermost, and whole under parts, pure white. Mantle 

 slatey blue, extending quite to the tips of the inner tertials. Edge of wing, from 

 the carpal, with the bastard wing, black. First five primaries, with their shafts, 

 black ; their extreme tips, and the outer half of the inner webs, to near the end, 

 ■white. Other primaries white, the sixth with % touch of black on the outer 

 web ; web near the base, extending a little on the inner web. Emargination of 

 tail 1-25 inches. Length 13-75; wing 10-75. Bill 1-00, along gape 1-50, height 

 at angle -30 ; tarsus 1-25, middle toe and claw same. 



Habitat. — Arctic America. Lake Winnipeg. (Kennicott.) 

 The preceding descripiion was drawn up from a very beautiful and perfect 

 specimen, collected on Lake Winnipeg by Mr. Kennicott. 



Genus VIIL Creagrus Bonap. 

 Creagrus?!'^. 1854. fide gen. Rep. 



25. Creagrus fcrcatus (Neboux.) 



Lams furcatus'S eboux. JCema furcains. Bruch 1353. Creagrus fiircatus Brnch 

 1855. 



Sp. Char. — "Adult: Head and nearly all of the neck grayish brown; two 

 small rounded white spots embracing symmetrically the base of the upper man- 

 dible ; mantle grayish white; breast, abdomen, and under wing coverts white; 

 wings extend beyond the tail ; primaries black on their inner and outer edges ; 

 the smaller wing coverts white; the greater slate color bordered with white; 

 tail very much forked and white, the two outer tail feathers much longer than 

 is usual in this class of birds ; bill very much bent, black at the base and white 

 at the extremity: iris red; eyelids orange; tarsi and feet red; claws black. 



" Total length t;0 centimetres." 



" Habitat. — CalifLtrnia." 



Of this rare and remarkable Gull I have never seen a specimen; but copy the 

 description from the General Report, to complete this very cursory notice of the 

 Gulls of North America. 



Catalogue of Birds collected by the United States North Pacific Surveying and 

 Exploring Expedition, in command of Capt. John Rodgers, United States 

 Navy, with notes and descriptions of new species. 



BY JOHN CASSIN. 



1. Falco peregrinus, Gmelin. 

 From Japan. 



We find in the collection one very fine adult specimen, quite identical with 

 specimens from Asia in the Museum of the Academy, and the first ever broitght 

 to this coitntry from Japan. Mr. Stimpsou's note is, " shot by Mr. Charles 

 Wright in the hills west of the city of Hakodadi, Island of .Jesso, June, 1855." 



2. MicROMSus RADIUS, (Gmelin). 



From China. " Hong Kong, March, 1855, collected by Mr. Salvadora Pel- 

 key." (Mr. Slimpson.) 



o. BuTEo VULGARIS Bechstein. 



Bnteo vulgaris japonicus, Temm. and Schleg., Faun. Japoni Aves, p. li!. 



From China. The only specimen is in light colored plumage and not adult. 



" Common about the harbor of Hong Kong, March, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



4. MiLvos ooviiNDA, Sykes. 



Milvus melanotis, Temm. and Schleg., Faun. Jap. Aves, p. 14, (1850). 



[Juue, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



From Japan. " Kagosima Bay, December, 1854. Collected by Lieut. 

 Brooke." (Mr. Stimpson). 



5. Elaxi'S LErctjRL's, (Vieillot). 



"San Francisco, California, January, 1856." (Mr. Stimpson). 



6. ClKCCS HDDSONIUS, (Liunffius). 



"San Francisco, California, January, 185G." (Mr. Stimpson). 



7. Steix pratincola, Bonaparte. 



"San Francisco, California, shot by J. G. Cooper, M. D., December, 1S55." 

 (Mr. Stimpson). 



8. Ot0S vulgaris, Fleming. 



From China. " Taken at sea, off the coast of China, about lat. .30^ N , De- 

 cember, 1854, by Mr. L. M. Squires of the Hancock." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



9. Brachyotl's Cassisii, Brewer. 



From California. "Mare Island, November, 185'). Shot by Capt. H. K. 

 Stephens." (Mr. Stimpson). 



10. Ketupa FLAViPES, (Hodgson). 



From China. " Hong Kong:, presented by Dr. Harland.'" (Mr. Stimpson). 



11. CoRvus coRAx, Liunseus. 



From Arikamcheche or Kayne Island, Behring's Straits. So far as I can see 

 is identical with the European Raven. 



12. Pica sericea, Gould. 



" Hong Kong, China, March, 1855, collected by Mr. S. Pelkey." (Mr. 

 Stimpson). 



13. EcLABES javaxensis, (Latham). 



From Gaspar Island, in the Straits between the islands of .Lava and Sumatra. 

 " Gaspar Island, April, 1854, collected by Mr. Squires." (Mr. Stimpson). 



14. Spreo morio, (Linnffius). 



" In flocks at Simon's town. Cape of Good Hope, October, 1853. Specimens 

 in the collection were obtained by Mr. Joseph Pennington and Mr. Francis H. 

 Storer." (Mr. Stimpson). 



15. Spreo bicolor, (Gmelin). 



From the Cape of Good Hope. "Iris white, lips or wattles at the base of 

 the bill, bright yellow, inhabits the marshy plains near Constantia, Cape of 

 Good Hope, October, 1853. Specimens in the collection were obtained by Mr. 

 .Joseph Pennington." (Mr. Stimpson). 



It). Lamprotorxis 3IETALLICUS, Temmiuck. 



From the Island of Tombaro or New Ireland. Numerous specimens, which 

 seem to be identical with others in the Academy Museum from'New Guinea. 



"Iris bright red, sexes alike; total length 9j inches, wing 4A, extent of 

 wings 13 inches. In flocks at Port Praslin, Tombaro Island, January 23d, 

 1854." (Lieut. Van Wyck). 



17. Agelaius Gcberxator, (Wagler). 



"San Francisco, California, November, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson). 



1^. El'plectes capensis, (Linnjeus). 



From the Cape of Good Hope. " On the plains and hill sides near villages, 

 and especially numerous near Constantia, Cape of Good Hope, October, 1853." 

 (Lieut. Van Wyck). 



19. Hyphaxtorxis aurifroxs, (Temminck). 



" Near Simon's town, Cape of Good Hope, October, 1853." (Mr. Stimpson). 



1862.] 




ol4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



20. Melophus Lathami, (Gray). 



From China. "Hong Kong, March, 1S55, collected l)v Mr. Salvadora. Pel- 

 kej." (Mr. Stimpson;. 



21. Passer moxtanus, (Linnreus). 

 From the Loo Choo Islands. 



22. Citkinella totta, (Sparrruan). 

 From the Cape of Good Hope. 



23. Sekinus butyraceus, (Linnaeus). 



"Near Simon's town. Cape of Good Hope, October, 1853." (Lieut. Van 

 Wyck). 



24. Serinus canicollis, (Swainson). 



From the Cape of Good Hope. "This bird had its nest in the crevice of a 

 sjranite mck on the western shore of False Bay at Simon's town, Cape of Good 

 Hope. It was about four feet from the ground and contained eggs ; Septem- 

 ber, 1S53." (Mr. F. H. Storer). 



25. Estrelda astrilda, (Linnajus). 

 From the Cape of Good Hope. 



26. Lel'gosticte bruxxeinucha, (Brandt). 



From Kamtschatka. One specimen in mature plumage of this little known 

 bird, which appears to be a summer resident in North-eastern Asia, and very 

 probably also visits Russian America. 



" Petropaulski, Kamtschatka, July, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson). 



27. Fringillaria capensts, (Linnaeus). 



" Near Simon's town, Cape of Good Hope, October, 1853." (Mr. Stimpson). 



28. Macroxyx capensis, (Linnasus). 



"Simon's Bay, Cape of Good Hope, September, 1853. Collected by Mr. 

 Francis E. Storer." (Mr. Stimpson). 



29. Megalophonus apiatus, (Vieillot). 



"Simon's Bay, Cape of Good Hope, September, 1853." (Mr. Stimpson). 



30. Lanius Schach, Linnaeus. 



From China. "Hong Kong, February, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson). 



31. Fjscus coi-LARis, (Linuasus). 



From the Cape of Good Hope. Numerous specimens of both sexes are in 

 the collection of the Expedition, and are distinguishable from each other only 

 by till' rather lighter color of the females. In some specimens of the latter 

 there is an ashy tinge in the usually clear black parts of the plumage, not 

 to be seen in male specimens. Apparently an abundant species of Southern 

 Africa. 



" Near Simon's town, Cape of Good Hope ; common around farm houses ou 

 the hills and having nests and eggs in October, 1853." (Mr. Stimpson). 



32. Laniakius bacbakiri, (Shaw). 



"Simon's town, Cape of Good Hope, October, 1853." (Lieut. Van Wyck). 



33. Merula chrysolaus. (Temminck). 



" Hong Kong, China, March, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson). 



34. Merula cardis. (Temminck). 



"Hong Kong, China, March, 1855," collected by Mr. S. Pelkey." (Mr. 

 Stimpson). 



35. Petrocossypus MAXiLLEXSis, ( Gmclin). 



From the Loo Choo Islands. "Abundant in the country around Nappa 

 Harbor, Great Loo Choo Island. Generally observed in the hedges which take 



[June. 




NATURAL SCUENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



tlu> place of fences in this island, but frequently seen on the ground. It ap- 

 pears to exclusively inhabit the rice and Indian corn fields or other cultivated 

 places." (Mr. E. M. Kern). 



86. Petrocincla rdpestkis, (Vieillot). 



From the Gape of Good Hope. A very handsome and interesting bird, of 

 which numerous specimens are in the collection of the Expedition. Female 

 specimens are easily distinguishable by the entire head being dull brown, 

 uniform with the back, with light touches and lines of black. In the males 

 the head is light ashy blue and the back dark fulvous mixed with brownish 

 black. Apparently an abundant bird of South Africa. 



"Simon's town," Cape of Good Hope, October, 1853." (Lieut. Van Wyck). 



'M. Bkssonoen'is PHOENiruKiis, (Gmelin). 



" Constantia. Cape of Good Hope, October, 18.53. Occasionally seen, but 

 not common." (Lieut. Van Wyck). 



33. Myiophonps xitidus, Gray. 



Myiophonus nitidus, Gray, Zool. Misc. p. 1, (1831). 



From China. 



Specimens of this little known but quite distinct and handsome species are 

 from the vicinity of Hong Kong, and are in excellent plumage and preserva- 

 tion. It has usually been regarded as identical with M. Temminckii, Vigors, 

 but quite erroneously, the two birds being no more nearly related than any 

 other two species of this genus. 



The specimens in the collection of the Expedition are the first ever brought 

 to this country, and are a most valuable and interesting addition to the Na- 

 tional Museum. From the frequently erroneous references to it by authors, 

 it appears also to be little known in museums of Europe. It is a quite dis- 

 tinct and well marked species. The present specimens are from the same 

 locality given in the original description by Mr. Gray, to which we refer above, 

 and are undoubtedly the same species. 



"Hong Kong, China, March, 1S55. Collected and presented by Dr. Har- 

 land." (Mr. Stimpson). 



39. Ixos iiiEMORRHOA, (^Gmelin). 



"Hong Kong, China, February^ 1855. Collected by Mr. Salvadora Pelkey." 

 (Mr. Stimpson). 



40. Ixos c.\PENsis, (Gmelin). 



" Near Simon's town, Cape of Good Hope, October, 1853. Common in the 

 valleys, generally frequenting the bushes.'' (Lieut. Van Wyck). 



41. Ixos SINENSIS, (Gmelin). 



" Hong Kong, China, February, 1S55. Collected by Mr. Salvadora Pelkey.'" 

 (Mr. Stimpson). 



42. Ixos 



From Hong Kong. A young bird not in good condition and brought home 

 in spirits, but evidently a species that I have never before seen from China, 

 and much regret that I find no other specimens in the collection. 



43. Gareulax perspicillatus, (Gmelin). 



"Hong Kong, March, 1855. Collected by Mr. S. Pelkey." (Mr. Stimpson) 



44. MiCEocELis SQUAMiCEPS, (Kittlitz). 



Oriolus squamiceps, Kittl., Mem. Acad. St. Petersb. 1830, p. 241. 



Galgulus amaurotis, Kittl., Kupfert, Vog. p. 8, (1832). 



"Turdus amaurotis, Temm.," Kittl., as above. 

 Mem. Acad. St. Peters. 1830, pi, 1(j. Kittl. Kupfert, pi. 12, fig. 1.' 

 From the Bonin Islands. 



18G-2.] 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



One specimen only, I regret to say, from the locality originally designated 

 l\v the describer of this curious species, the distinguished Uussian naturalist 

 above named. This specimen is not in mature plumage, and is somewhat 

 injured from being preserved in alcohol, but I have no doubt as to the iden- 

 tity of the species. 



So far as I can judge from the present specimen, I much doubt that this 

 bird is identical with Tardus amaurotis, Temm. and Schleg., Fatin. Japon. 

 Aves, pi. 31, B., a Japanese species, of which several specimens are in the 

 Academy Museum from the Leyden Museum, though so rated by ornitholo 

 gists, and even by Professor Kittlitz himself in his late work above cited. 

 This bird is well described and figured as above cited, and the specimen now 

 before us is the first that we have ever had the gratification of seeing and the 

 first ever brought to this country. 



•'Bonin Islands, October, 1854." (Mr. Stimpson). 



45. SpHENiEcus AFRiCAxrs, (Gmeliu). 



" Near Simon's town. Cape of Good Hope, October, 1S53. Found in shel- 

 tered sandy valleys, frequent."' (Lieut. Van Wyck). 



46. Pkatincola sybilla, (Gmelin). 



•'Near Constantia, Cape of Good Hope, October, 1853, frequent.'' (Lieut. 

 Van Wyck I. 



47. RcTiciLLA AURORA, (Pallas). 



From China. Figured by Messrs. Temminck and Schlegel in Fauna Japo- 

 nica as a bird of Japan, where it appears to be of more frequent occurrence, 

 but I have now repeatedly received it from China. 



"Hong Kong, February, 1855," (Mr. Stimpson). 



48. Calliope camtschatkexsis, (Gmelin). 



Turdns camtschatkeiisis, Gm., Syst. Nat. ii. p. 817, (1788). 

 Motacilla calliope, Pallas, Travels, iv. p. 668, (Paris, 1793). 

 Calliope Lathamii, Gould, B. of Europe, ii. p. (not paged. 1837). 

 Accentor calliope, Auct. 

 Goiild, B. of Eur. ii. pi. 118. 

 From Kamtschatka. 



A specimen of this bird in the collection of the Expedition is one of the most 

 interesting tliat we have ever had an opportunity of examining. It is from 

 the locality from which this species was originally described, and from which 

 it derives its nam^, though now well known as a bird of India, occasionally 

 occurring in Europe, and is very handsomely figured by Mr. Gould in his 

 magnificent and standard work above cited. 



The first description of this species is by Latham, under the name of " Kamt- 

 schatka Thrush," in General Synopsis of Birds, ii. p. 28, from specimens in 

 the collection of Sir Ashton Lever ; " inhabits Kamtschatka." On the faith ol 

 this description Gmelin gave the name as above. I find in the Museum of the 

 Academy numerous specimens, of which those from Japan bear the most in- 

 timate resemblance to that now before me. All these seem to be slightly 

 larger than others variously labelled "Bengal,'' "India" and "Europe," 

 but in all other respects are precisely similar. I have no doubt of tlie identity 

 of the species from all the localities here mentioned, the proper name for 

 which is that above given. 



"Shot at Awatska Bay, Kamtschatka, July, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson). 



49. Nemura cyanura, (Pallas). 



"Hong Kong, February, 1855 ; collected by Mr. S. Pelkey." (Mr. Stimpson). 



50. ZosTEKOPS AXNULOSA, (Swaiusou). 



"Simoji's Bay, Cape of Good Hope, September, 1853." (Mr. Stimpson). 



[June. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



51. Cercotrichas coryph^ps, (Vieillot). 



Sylvia coryphseus, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xi. p. 177, (1817). 

 Drymoica coryplisea, G. R. Gray, Gen. Birds, i. p. 163. 

 Le Vaill. Ois. d'Afr. iii. pi. 120. " 



From the Cape of Good Hope. 



This seems to be a little known species, though from the fact that there are 

 several specimens in the present collection and also in the Museum of the 

 Academy, we would infer that it is of frequent occurrence in Southern Africa. 

 The only name that we find for this bird is that of the great French ornitholo- 

 gist, Vieillot, given above, and after careful examination we find no genus 

 more appropriate than Cercotrichas, Boie, as given by Dr. Hartlaub in his very 

 valuable volume on the Birds of Western Africa, p. 69. It is a long-tailed 

 form of Luscinince, as restricted by Mr. G. R. Gray, to which belong such ge- 

 nera as Cercotrichas, Sphenura and Thamnolaca, and represented in the 

 Thrushes by Copsi/chus and its allies. 



This bird is fairly represented in Le Vaillant's plate above cited. "Con- 

 stantia, Cape of Good Hope, October, 1S53. Collected by Lieut. Van Wyck." 

 (Mr. Stimpson). 



52. Drymoica MACULOSA, (Boddsert). 



•'Simon's town, Cape of Good Hope, September, 1853. Collected by Mr. 

 Francis E. Storer. " (Mr. Stimpson). 



ri'S. Drymoica subrdficapilla. Smith. 



Drymoica subruficapilla, Smith, 111. S. Afr. Zool. Birds, (1349). 

 " Malurus phragmitoides," label in Acad. Mus. Phila. 

 Smith, 111. S. Afr. Zool. Birds, pi. 76, fig. L'. 

 From the Cape of Good Hope. This species is represented in the plate above 

 cited with but moderate success, and for its identification in the present col- 

 lection we rely on specimens in the Academy Museum labelled by that very 

 excellent ornithologist Mr. Jules P. Verreaux, of Paris. The name Malurin 

 phragmitoides is attached to specimens formerly in the Rivoli collection, and 

 which we have not succeeded in finding in any publication to which we have 

 access, except the catalogue of the Rivoli collection. 



"Simon's Bay, Cape of Good Hope, September, 1853." (Mr. Stimpson). 



54. Reguloides proregplus, (Pallas). 



Motacilla proregulus, Pallas, Zoog. Ross. Asiat. i. p. 499, (1811). 

 Regulus modestus, Gould, B. of Eur. ii. (not paged, 1837). 

 Gould B. of Eur. ii. pi. 149. 

 '' Hong Kong, February, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson). 



55. MoTACiLL.i capensis, Linnteus. 



"Simon's town. Cape of Good Hope, September, 1853. Collected by Lieut. 

 Van Wyck and Dr. Alexander." (Mr. Stimpson). 



r)(j. Motacilla dckhuxessis, Sykes. 



"In a meadow at Hong Kong, China, March, 1855. Collected by Mr. Sal- 

 vadora Pelkey." (Mr. Stimpson). 



57. Motacilla Luzon ie.vs is, Scopoli. 



" Hong Kong, February, 1855. (Mr. Stimpson). 



58. Motacilla lugubris, Temminck. 



Motacilla lugubris, Temm., Man. d'Orn. iii. p. 175, (1835). 

 Motacilla albeola, var. kamtschatiia, Pallas, Bonap. Cousp. Av. i. p. 

 251. 

 Gould. B. of Eur. ii. pi. 142. Temm. and Schleg., Faun. .Tap. Birds, pi. 25. 

 From Kamtschatka. 

 One specimen, not in good condition, appears to be this species in summer 



1862.] 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



plumage, but has the white space on the shoulders uot so large as appears to 

 be usual. The throat is entirely black, which color extends to the breast, 

 ending abruptly, 



Tliis is undouljtedly the bird alluded to by Pallas in Zoog. Ross. Asiat. i. 

 p. 507, as a variety of Motacilla alheola, which he states is of frequent occur- 

 rence in Kamtschatka and the Curile Islands. To this variety the Prince Bo- 

 naparte gives the name as above. 



••Pctropaulski, July, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson). 



59. BoDYTEs viRiDES, (Gmelin) ? 



From the Island of Formosa. A young specimen preserved in spirits and 

 which we find impossible to refer to any species — moreover, a young speci- 

 men of a Motacilla, greenish and yellowish colored, is not an easy subject, at 

 best ! 



" Flew on board, after a storm, off the south end of the Island of Formosa, 

 September 25th, 1854." (Mr. Stimpson). 



60. Anthus malayensis, Eyton. 



•Hong Kong, February, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson). 



tjl. HiRUNDO GUTTUKALIS, Scopoli. 



•• Flew on board offthe Island of Formosa, September, 1855." (Mr. Stimp- 

 son). 



62. Cecropis cucullata, (Boddc-ert). 



" Constantia, Cape of Good Hope, October, 1553. Collected by Lieut. Van 

 Wyck." (Mr. Stimpson). 



63. Cypselcs melba, (Linnaeus). 



Hirundo melba, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 345, (1766). 

 Hirundo alpina, Scopoli. 



Hirundo gularis, Steph., Gen. Zool., x. p. 99, (1817). 

 Cypselus gutturalis, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xix. p. 422, (1818). 

 Le Vaill. Ois d'Afr. v. pi. 243. 

 From the Cape of Good Hope. 



Several specimens, very interesting on account of their locality, and tend- 

 ing to demonstrate that this bird, which is found in southern Europe and 

 Asia, inhabits also the entire continent of Africa. On careful comparison with 

 European specimens in the Museum of the Philadelphia Academy, though we 

 tind no strong nor perhaps sufficient characters distinguishing the present 

 bird, yet the specimens now before us are somewhat larger, and appear to 

 have a wider band in front on the neck and breast. Both of the names last 

 given above are applicable to the South African bird, having been applied on 

 the faith of Le Vaillant's plate and description. 



" Near Simon's town, Cape of Good Hope, October, 1853. Shot by Lieut. 

 Van Wyck." (Mr. Stimpson). 



C4. Alcedo bengalensis, Gmelin. 



From the Loo Choo Islands and from China. 



"Loo Choo, November, 1854, and Hong Kong, February, 1855." (Mr. 

 h'timpson). 



" Frequently seen along a creek at Tumai, Nappa Harbor, Great Loo Cboo, 

 generally sitting very quietly on dead branches projecting over the stream, or 

 occasionally plunging into the water." (Mr. E. M. Kern). 



65. Halcyon pileata, (Boddsert). 



"Near Hong Kong, presented by Dr. Harland." (Mr. Stimpson). 



66. Halcyon rufiventris, Swainson. 



" In a dry valley back of Porto Praya, Cape de Verde Islands. Collected 

 li.y Lieut. Van Wyck, July, 1853." (Mr. Stimpson). 



[Juno. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. oVJ 



C7. Selasphorus rcfcs, (Gmeliu). 



From Sitka, Russian America. 

 68. Nectarixia famosa, (Linnaeus). 



From the Cape of Good Hope. 



Numerous specimens of both sexes and young of various ag^^-s and .stages of 

 plaraage. In tlie youngest the entire upper parts are dull ashy brown, the 

 brilliant metallic green of the adult first appearing on the shoulders. Throat 

 and under parts of the body greenish yellow mixed with dark greenish brown. 



■'Simon's town, Cape of Good Hope, October, 1S53. Abundant, and nume- 

 rous specimens collected by Lieut. Van Wyck." (Mr, Stimpson). 



6.^. Nectarixia violacea, (Linnaeus). 



From the Cape of Good Hope. 



Adults and young birds in the collection of the Expedition. Tlie latter are 

 uniform dull greenish brown or yellowish brown above and nearly the same 

 below, though lighter and with the yellow predominating on the abdomen. 



'• Very abundant in the gorges of the hills near Simon's town, Cape of Good 

 Hope, September and October, 1853. Numerous specimens were collected by 

 Lieut. Van Wyck and Mr. Joseph Pennington." (Mr. Stimpson). 



70. CixxYRis chalybba, (Linnaeus). 



••Cape of Good Hope, October, 1353 ; abundant, and numerous specimens 

 obtained by Lieut. Van Wyck and Mr. Joseph Pennington." (Mr. Stimpson ) 



71. Promerops CAFER, (Linuaeus). 

 From the Cape of (jood Hope. 



Numerous specimens of both sexes and various stages of plumage are in the 

 collection of the Expedition. This is evidently a common bird of South Africa, 

 and the specimens now before us show much uniformity in colors and other 

 specific characters in both sexes. They differ, however, in some minur par- 

 ticulars, such as the greater or less extent of the light brown color on the 

 breast, and no two specimens have the tail of the same length- One male, 

 evidently a patriarch, has a magnificent outfit in this line, his tail measurins 

 fifteen inches, and his total length about twenty-one inches. 



This is one of the few birds named and described by Linnaeus from a draw- 

 ing only, without specimens and without reference to any author. A recond 

 description, in which he names the same species " Upupa promerops," (Syst. 

 Nat. i. p. 184), is copied from Brisson. 



••Abundant on the hill sides, frequenting low trees and bushes ; numerous 

 specimens obtained by Lieut. Van Wyck, Cape of Good Hope, October. 

 1853," (.Mr. Stimpson). 



72. EcLECTUs LiNx^i, Wagler. 



From the Island of Tombaro, or New Ireland. One specimen only of this 

 gorgeous species, which, though known as a bird of New Guinea, is now pre- 

 sented from a new locality. 



•' Port Praslin, Tombaro Island, January 23d, 1854. Extent of wings 2tJi 

 inches, wing from shoulder 9|, total length 13 inches. Iris wliitish, a deli- 

 cate band of azure colored feathers around the eyes." (Lieut. Van Wyck). 



73. ECLECTUS POLYCHLOR0S, (Scopoli). 



From the Island of Tombaro or New Ireland. Also from a new locality. 



'• Port Praslin, Tombaro Island, January 23d, 1S54. Iris red ; total length 

 15 inches, wine from shoulder dk, extent of wings 30 inches." (Lieut. Van 

 Wyck). 



74. Geocolaptes cafer, (Gmelin). 

 From the Cape of Good Hope. 



75. Ce.vtropus si.xEssis, (Stephens). 



Polophilus sinensis, Staph., Gen. Zool. ix. p. 51, (1S15), 

 186-2.] 




820 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



From China. Specimens not in mature plumage, but of a species probablj 

 quite distinct from C. philippimis or other, and much as described by Stephen?. 

 as cited. 



"Hong Kong, China, March, 1855, collected by Mr. S. Pelkey." (Mr. 

 Stimpson). 



7G. Geogoccyx mexicanus, (Gmelin). 



"California, November, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson). 



77. CoLUMBA INTERMEDIA, Strickland. 

 From the Loo Choo Islands. 



" Frequently seen about the pine trees in the foreign burying ground and 

 its vicinity, at Tumai, Nappa Harbor, Great Loo Choo Island, December, 1854. 

 Seemed to be quite at home in the trees, and was rather wild and watchful, 

 though occasionally shot for eating by members of the Expedition. Pairs 

 were generally seen together and only in the trees." (Mr. E. M. Kern). 



78. Carpophaga Van Wyckii, Cassin. 



About the size of and resembling Caipopliaga eenea and allied species, but 

 with the head and neck lighter and a distinct ring of white around the eyes. 

 Bill moderate, rather depressed at base ; wing with the third quill longest ; 

 tail rather long ; tarsi short and feathered behind, in front having about three 

 large scales ; toes much flattened beneath, claws rather strong, curved. 



Frontal feathers and ring around the eye white. Head and neck above 

 light cinereous, body above, wing coverts and tail coverts metallic golden 

 green with violet and ferruginous shades. Throat and entire under parts of 

 the body vinaceous, tinged with purple on the throat and breast and inclining 

 to cinereous on the flanks and abdomen. Under tail coverts dark chestnut, 

 cjuills black with a bluish lustre and a slight shade of grayish ashy, tail fea- 

 thers deep metallic blue, changing to green on the edges and at their ends. 

 Bill and feet light colored, probably yellow. 



"Iris lake, upper mandible purple at base; extent of wings 27 inches." 

 (Lieut. Van Wyck). 



Total length about 17 inches, wing 9, tail 5.\ inches. 



Hal. — Tombaro Island or New Ireland. Specimen in National Miaseom, 

 Washington. 



This tine Pigeon is of much interest, and we regret to find only a single 

 specimen in the collection of the Kxpedition, which was obtained by Lieut. 

 Van Wyck at Port Praslin, in the island above mentioned. It is allied to C. 

 ceneu and its allies, but is not identical with either of them, and is from a 

 locality not previously assigned to any species of the intricate group of which 

 (,.'. anea is the type. 



To this handsome bird we have great gratification in giving a name in honor 

 of its discoverer, the late Lieut. Van Wyck of the United States Navy. To 

 the enterprise and scientific taste of this lamented gentleman we are indebted 

 for a very valuable portion of the present extensive collection, and he was de- 

 servedly esteemed as one of the most talented and promising young officers of 

 the naval service. His early death, on the passage homeward of the U. S. 

 Brig Porpoise, is, assuredly, to be deplored as a loss to science and to his 

 country. 



79. Carpophaga lucthosa, (Temminck). 

 From TomV)aro Island, (New Ireland). 



One specimen only in young plumage, but from a locality not previously 

 kuown for this species. 



"Purchased from the natives at Port Praslin, Tombaro Island, or New Ire- 

 land, February, 1854." (Lieut. Van Wyck). 



80. TuRTUR RUPicoLA, (Pallas). 

 From the Loo Choo Islands. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



•• Numeroug at the foreign burying ground at Tumai, Great Loo Choo Island, 

 December, 1854. Frequently seen in tbe pine trees and always in pairs, the 

 male constantly cooing and very sedulously engaged in attentions to his mate." 

 (Mr. E. M. Kern). 



81. TUETUR CHINEXSIS, (ScOpoli). 



<' Hong Kong, China, February, 1855. Collected by Mr. Salvadora Pelkey." 

 (Mr. Stimpson). 



82. LoPHOETTX CALiFORNicus, (Shaw). 

 From California. 



83. Geus canadensis, (Linnreus). 



"San Francisco, California, November, 1S55." (Mr. Stimpson). 



84. Herodias egretta, (Gmelin). 



" San Francisco, California, November, 1855," (Mr. Stimpson). 



85. Herodias alba, (Linnjeus). 



"Loo Choo, December, 1S54." (Mr. Stimpson). 



86. Aedi .V juGCLAEis, Forster. 



From the Loo Choo Islands. Specimens in the usual dark colored plumage, 

 and not different from others now before me from Tahiti and New Zealand, so 

 far as I can see. The present is an unusual locality. 



"Loo Choo, December, 1854." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



87. Aedea Greyi, (Gray.) 



"Loo Choo, December, 1854." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



88. BoTAURus lextigiitosus, (Montagu.) 

 "Marc Island, California." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



89. NcMExius ARQUATus, (Linuseus.) 

 From the Loo Choo Islands. 



"Abundant along the coral reefs at Nappa Harbor, Great Loo Choo Island." 

 (Mr. E. M. Kern.) 



90. LiMOSA FEDOA, (Liunseus.) 



" San Francisco, California, November, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



91. Chaeadrius fulvcs, Gmelin. 



From Loo Choo and the Bonin Islands. Several specimens apparently of 

 the same species and identical with numerous others now before me from va- 

 rious localities in the Pacific Ocean. 



"Loo Choo, November, 1854, Bonin Islands, October, 1854." (Mr. Stimp- 

 son.) 



92. CHARADRirs LONGiPES, Temminck. 



From the Bonin Islands. Appears to be identical with Asiatic specimens in 

 the Museum of the Philadelphia Academy. 



93. Aegialitis nivifeons, (Lesson.) 



From the Cape of Good Hope. "In low, stony places near the sea, Cape 

 of Good Hope, October, 1853, collected by Lieut. Van Wyck." (Mr. Stimp- 

 son.) 



94. Maceoeamphcs scolopacets, (Say.) 



" San Francisco, California, November, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



95. Stjiphemia semipalmata, (Gmelin.) 



" San Francisco, California, December, 1S55." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



96. ToTAXus BEEViPES, (ViciUot.) 



"Bonin Islands, October. 1854, Loo Choo, November, 1S54." (Mr. Stimp- 

 son.) 



1862.] 22 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



97. TOTANUS GLAREOLA, (Linnjciis.) 



" Hong Kong, China, March, 1855, collected by Mr. S. Pelkey." (Mr. Stimp- 

 son.) 



98. Tr^goides HYPOLE0CA, (LinnsBus.) 

 From the Loo Choo Islands. 



99. Tringoides empusa, (Gould.) 



" Bonin Islands, October, 1854." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



100. Tringa alpixa, Linnaeus. 



From the Asiatic coast of Behring's Straits. Specimens in the collection of 

 the Expedition are identical witli the European species aud also with Asiatic 

 specimens in the museum of the Philadelphia Academy. 



"Straits of Semiavine, Asiatic coast of Behring's Straits, August, 1855." 

 (Mr. Stimpson.) 



101. Tkixga minuta, Leisler. 



"Straits of Semiavine, Asiatic coast of Behring's Straits, August, 1855." 

 (Mr. Stimpson.) 



102. Phalaropcs FULiCARius, (Linuaeus.) 



From Behring's Straits. "This bird appeared in great numbers, during an 

 easterly storm, seeking shelter under the lea of our tents at Arikamcheche 

 Island, on the Asiatic coast of Behring's Straits, in August, 1855." (Mr. Stimp- 

 son.) 



103. Rallus elegans, Audubon. 



" San Francisco, California." (Mr, Stimpson.) 



104. PiALLUs VIROIXIAN0S, Liunseus. 



" San Francisco, California, January, 1856." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



105. FuLicA AJiEEiCANA, Gmeliu. 



" San Francisco, California, November, 1355." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



106. FfLicA ALAi, Peale. 



From the Sandwich Islands. " Found in considerable numbers tending 

 their young at a fresh water pond near Hilo, Hawaii, March, 1856." (Mr. 

 Stimpson.) 



107. Anas boschas, Linnaeus. 

 From the Sandwich Islands. 



108. Mareca AMERICANA, (Grmeliu.) 



"San Francisco, California, January. 1356." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



109. Dafila acuta, (Linnaeus.) 



"San Francisco, California, January, 1356." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



110. I^ETTioy CAR0LIXENSI3, (Gmeliu.) 



" San Francisco, California, December, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



111. Xettion crecca, (Linnaeus.) 



" Obtained in the market at Hong Kong, China, by Capt. Rodgers, Febru- 

 ary, 1855 ; said to be cauglit in nets." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



112. Spatula clypeata, (Linnaeus.) 



" San Francisco, California, January, 1856." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



113. FuLix MABiLA, (Liunaeus.) 



"Loo Choo Islands, December, 1854." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



114. FuLix AFFiNis, (Eyton.) 



" Petaluma Creek, California, December, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



115. Atthya valisxeria, (Wilson.) 



" San Francisco, California, December, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



[June. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



116. BrcEPHALA AMERicAKA, (Bonaparte.) 



"San Francisco, California, December, 1855." (Mr. Stimpsou.) 



117. HisTEioxicus TOKQUATus, (Brandt.) 

 From California. 



118. PoLTSTicTA Stelleri, (Pallas.) 



" Semiavine Straits, August, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



119. Ekisjiattjra rubida, (Wilson.) 



"San Francisco, California, January, 1856." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



120. Melaxetta velvetina, (Cassin.) 



" San Francisco, California, November, 1855." (Mr. Stimpsou.) 



121. Pelionetta peespicillata, (Linnaeus.) 



"San Francisco, California, November, 1855." (Mr. Stimpsou.) 



122. SOMATERIA JIOLISSIMA, (LlHUfeUS.) 



" Semiavine Straits, August, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



123. SoMATEKiA sPECTABiLis, (Linnseus.) 



" Behring's Straits, August, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



124. Bernicla leccopareia, (Brandt.) 



" San Francisco, California, January, 1856." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



125. COLYMBCS SEPTENTRIONALIS, LinUffiUS. 



" San Francisco, California, November, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



126. PoDiCEPS coRNUTus, (Gmeliu.) 

 "California, November, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



127. PoDiLYMBus CAROLiNExsis, (Latliam.) 



" San Francisco, California, November, 1855." (Mr. Stimpsou.) 



128. Ueia grylle, (Linnseus.) 

 From Herald Island, Arctic Ocean. 



Very interesting on account of locality, which is north of Behring's Straits, 

 though known as inhabiting the coasts of northern Asia. Exactly identical 

 with the bird of northern Europe and north-eastern America. 



"Herald Island, August, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



129. Uria columba, (Pallas.) 



From Behring's Straits. Numerous specimens of this species, now well 

 known as inhabiting the Pacific coast of America from the present locality to 

 San Francisco. In general form and color resembles the preceding, but is 

 easily distinguished by the white space on the wing being partially divided 

 by a black band, or, as expressed by Pallas, '■\fascia alarum duplex alba.'" 



"Abundant in the edge of the water at the harbor of Glassnappe in the 

 island of Arikamcheche or Kayne Island, which is on the Asiatic side of Behr- 

 ing's Straits, lat. M° 40' N., long. 172* 59' W., and along the shores of the 

 Straits of Semiavine which separate this island from the continent of Asia." 



"This bird was always observed swimming close to the shore, apparently 

 in search of food, and though seen in considerable numbers, was always iso- 

 lated and scattered along the coast. It is quite shy and timid, and on the 

 slightest alarm escaped by diving with great expertness and quickness, and 

 swimming under the water quite a considerable distance. It was not heard 

 to utter any note, but quite silently and very industriously appeared to be 

 constantly engaged in its search for subsistence." (Mr. E. M. Kern.). 



"Behring's Straits, August, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson). 



130. Uria caebo, (Pallas). 



From the coast of Japan. From a new locality and a more southern lati- 

 tude than usual for this interesting species. 



1862.] 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



"On the coast of the Island of Niphon, Japan, north of the Bay of Sendai, 

 •Tune, 1855. Collected by Lieut. Brooke." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



131. Ukia arra, (Pallas.) 



From Herald Island, Arctic Ocean. The only specimen of this species that 

 has ever reached the naturalists or museums of the United States from a lo- 

 cality on the western or north-western coasts of America. In mature plumage, 

 and showing strongly the dilated edges of the basal third part of the upper 

 mandibles by which this species is easily distinguished. 



" Herald Island, Arctic Ocean, August, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



132. Fratercttla cirrhata, (Gmelin). 



From the Sea of Ochotsk. Formerly very rare in museums, but is now 

 brought in nearly all collections from the Pacific coast of America, and is evi- 

 dently of frequent occurrence. 



"Ochotsk Sea, August, 1855, collected by Capt. H. K. Stevens." (Mr. 

 Stimpson.) 



133. Mormon cornicitlata, Naumann. 



Mormon corniculata, Naum., Isis 1821, p. 782. 

 Mormon glacialis, Aud. Orn. Biog. iii. p. 599. (1835.) 

 Gray, Gen. iii. pi. 174. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 293, Oct. ed. vii. pi, 463. 

 From Behring's Straits and the Sea of Ochotsk. Several specimens in ma- 

 ture plumage, all of which seem to be that entitled to the name here given. 

 The species is, however, nearly related to the common glacialis, and may be 

 identical. 



"Behring's Straits, August, 1855; Ochotsk Sea, August, 1855." (Mr. 

 Stimpson.) 



134. Phalekis pcsilla, (Pallas.) 



Uria pusilla, Pallas, Zoog. Ross. Asiat. ii. p. 373, (1811.) 



From Behring's Straits. Specimens of this little bird are amongst the most 

 interesting in the collection of the Expedition, and are probably the first ever 

 obtained since this species was described by the distinguished Russian natu- 

 ralist above mentioned. Usually this bird has been regarded as identical with 

 Phaleris microceros, {^P. nodirostris), but it is entirely distinct, and also from 

 Alca pygvicBa of authors. 



This curious little bird is probably the very smallest of the sea birds, and 

 is easily distinguished by the clear black of its upper plumage and pure white 

 of the under parts, with the additional character of having white scapulars. 

 It is about an inch shorter in total length than P. microceros, aud smaller in 

 all other measurements. The rediscovery of this bird is an important contri- 

 bution to ornithology, and the specimens are an exceedingly valuable addition 

 to the National museum. 



"In the Straits of Semiavine and along the coast of Arikamcheche Island 

 this little bird was quite numerous in September, 1855. It was always seen 

 in the water and was constantly diving, as though seeking food beneath the 

 surface, but remaining submerged a short time only. It has a short chirping 

 note, and is so very small in size and gentle in its actions and appearance that 

 some of our party were disposed to insist that it was a very young bird, or 

 chicken of a larger species. All admitted that it was the very smallest sea- 

 bird that they had ever seen." 



" Though rather shy, it was occasionally killed by a blow from the paddle 

 of a kiak or native boat, and sometimes an attempt to row into the midst of a 

 flock for that purpose was successful. Several specimens were preserved for 

 the ornithological collection, and large numbers were eaten, and with other 

 birds proved an agreeable addition to our limited stock of fresh provisions." 

 (Mr. E. M. Kern.) 



135. Pelecanus fuscus, Linnaeus. 



"San Francisco, California, November, 1S55." (Mr. Stimpson). 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



136. SiTLA FiBEK, (Linnseus.) 



" Shot at the Bonin Islands by Mr. J. Thompson, Master's Mate of the Vin- 

 cennes, October, 1854." (Mr. Stimpsou). 



" Alighted on board, oflf the Meia-co-shimah Islands, between the Loo Choo 

 Islands and Formosa, just after sunset, October 3d, 1854. Bill yellowish blue, 

 inclining to greenish about the base and on the throat. Feet light lemon yel- 

 low. Two fishes of the genus Hemiramphus vfere found in its maw." (Mr. 

 Stimpson.) 



137. SuLA piscATOR, (Linuseus.) 



" Taken in the Coral Sea, January, 1854. No land nor shoal known to be 

 in the vicinity." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



138. Graculds dilophus, (Swaiuson.) 



"San Pablo Bay and Bay of San Francisco, California, November, 1855." 

 (Mr. Stimpson.) 



139. Graculps violaceus, (Gmelin.) 



From Behring's Straits. In very fine adult plumage. 

 "Behring's Straits, August, 1855." (Mr. Stimpsou.) 



140. Graculus CARBO, (Linnceus.) 



"Shot at Fotow Bay, Island of Ousima, May, 1855, by Lieut. Brooke." 

 (Mr. Stimpson.) 



141. Laeus Hutchinsii, Richardson. 

 From Behring's Straits. 



"Abundant on the shores of Semiavine Straits and in the fresh- water la- 

 goons of Arikamcheche Island on the Asiatic coast of Behring's Straits, in 

 August, 1855 ; not shy and easily approached within gun-shot. The native 

 boys catch this bird with a sort of sling made of five or six strands of rope, 

 to the ends of which small stones are attached. This sling is thrown at the 

 bird usually when flying, and is frequently successful in entangling it so 

 much that it cannot extricate itself before being captured. Tlie skins of this 

 and other birds are used by the Tchuchtchi people for clothing." (Mr. E. 

 M. Kern.) 



142. Laeus melanueus, Temminck. 



" Hakodadi, Japan, June, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



143. RissA KoTZEBUEi, Bonaparte. 



"Behring's Straits, August, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



144. Cheoicocephalus Philadelphia, (Ord.) 



" San Francisco, California, November, 1855." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



145. Steena macrouea, Naumann. 



Sterna macroura, Naum., Isis, 1819, p. 1847. 

 Sterna arctica, Temm., Man. d'Orn. ii. p. 742, (1820.) 

 From Behring's Straits. This is the first specimen that I have ever seen 

 from the North Pacific Ocean, but it appears to be identical with the bird from 

 the northern regions of America and Europe. 



" Semiavine Straits, Asiatic coast of IJehring's Straits, August, 1855." 

 (Mr. Stimpson.) 



146. Sterna lunata, Peale. 



Sterna lunata, Peale, Zool. U. S. Ex. Exp. Vincennes, Birds, p. 277, 

 (1st ed. 1848.) 

 From the Pacific Ocean, lat. 26"^ N., long. 135° E. This is a rather large, 

 black-billed species of the same group, and considerably resembling the com- 

 mon S. punaija, but is much lighter colored. It is carefully described in my 

 second edition of the volume on Quadrupeds and Birds of the U. S. Ex. Exp. 

 (1858.) 



1862.] 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



"Taken in the North Pacific Ocean, lat. 20" N., long. 135^ E. (Mr. Stimp- 

 son.) 



147. Sterna minuta, Linnseus ? 



From the Island of Formosa. In young plumage. 



" Fleiv on board after a storm, off the south end of the Island of Formosa, 

 September 25th, 1854." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



14S. Ayors stolidus, (Linnseus.) 



From the Pacific Ocean. Very extensively distributed, but one specimen 

 in the collection of the expedition is from an unusually northern locality. 



" Specimen No. 181, taken near the Borodine Islands, lat 24° N. long. 132" 

 E. in the North Pacific Ocean." 



" Specimen No. 105, alighted on board at night, in lat. 5® S., long. 166" E. 

 (Mr. Stimpson.) 



149. DioMEDEA EXULANS, Linuseus. 



From the Cape of Good Hope and other localities in the South Atlantic and 

 Pacific Oceans. 



150. DroMEDEA BKACHTUEA, Temminck. 



" North Pacific Ocean, lat. 30° to 60° N., long. 140° to 150° W., very com- 

 mon." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



151. DioMEDEA 3IELAN0PHETS, Temmiuck. 



From the Cape of Good Hope and from the South Pacific ocean. 

 " Feet pearly slate color, a black stripe at the base of the bill, ■which nearly 

 disappears on drying. Shot and prepared by Dr. Stuart." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



152. DiOMEDEA FTTLiGixosA, Gmelin. 



From the Cape of Good Hope and various localities in the Pacific Ocean. 



153. OssiFRAGA GiGANTEA, (Gmelin.) 



From the Pacific Ocean, south of Australia. 



" Lat. 40° 10' S., long. 132° 49' E. Iris black, feet black, little changed in 

 drying." (Lieut. Van Wyck.) 



154. FuLMABUs RoDGEKSii, Cassin. 



About the size of F. glacialis of the Northern Atlantic Ocean, and in gene- 

 ral appearance resembling that species, but with the tertiary quills, rump and 

 under wing coverts white. Bill strong, thick, wings long, with the first quills 

 longest, feet rather large, tarsi covered with small hexagonal scales, tail short, 

 slightly rounded. 



Bill yellow, with a tinge of green at base (in dried skin.) Head, neck, 

 lower back, rump, tertiary quills and entire under parts snowy white. Back, 

 scapulars and wing coverts brownish ashy, with a pearly lustre, primary and 

 secondary quills ashy brown, with a large portion of their inner webs white, 

 and their shafts white. Tail feathers light ashy brown, with their shafts white 

 and their inner webs white at base. Feet light colored, probably yeUow. 



Total length about 18 inches, wing 12, taU 5 inches. 



Hab. — South Indian Ocean. Specimen in Nat. Mus. "Washington. 



This bird belongs to the same group as the common ProceHaria glacialis of 

 the Northern seasand P. Facifica of the Northwestern coast of Amprica, both 

 of which are included in the restricted group Fulmarus. The tertiary quills 

 in the present species are white, which is a strong character, in addition to 

 which it is larger and much lighter colored than either of the species men- 

 tioned. In the one character of liaving the tertiaries white, this bird resembles 

 P. antartica, Gray, Voy. Erebus and Terror, Birds, pi. 33, but in no other. 

 The bill in the present bird is yellow, and precisely of the same form as in P. 

 plariali!<. One specimen only is in the collection of the expedition, and is 

 stated to have been obtained in the Indian Ocean, 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



This species is dedicated to Commodore John Rodgers, of the United States 

 Navy, under whose command the voyage of the North Pacific Surveying and 

 Exploring Expedition was performed, and through whose liberal and en- 

 lightened encouragement and assistance the naturalists of the expedition 

 were enabled to form one of the most extensive and interesting collections in 

 all departments of zoology ever brought to this cot^try. In all the classes of 

 Marine zoology the collections are especially valuable, and were made under 

 the immediate direction of this accomplished and distinguished officer. 



155. FrLJiARrs pacificcs, (Audubon.) 



"Kamtschatka Sea, September, 1855. North Pacific Ocean, lat. 40'' N., 

 long. 150° W." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



156. Thalassoica glacialoids, (A. Smith.) 



"At sea, lat. 44° 48' S., long. 42° 54' E., Nov. 14th, 1853. Eyes black, bill 

 black and flesh-colored, the latter fading to nearly white in drying." (Lieut. 

 Van Wyck.) 



157. jEstrelata Lessonii, (Gamot.) 



From the South Indian Ocean. A single specimen of this little known spe- 

 cies, quite identical with Mr. Gould's specimens now in the Museum of the 

 Philadelphia Academy. 



"Taken in the South Indian Ocean, December, 1853, by Dr. Stuart, of the 

 Porpoise. Eyes black, lower part of toes and webs black, upper part white." 

 (Lieut. Van Wyck.) 



158. Majaqcecs coxspicillatus, (Gould.) 



From the Atlantic Ocean, off the coast of Africa. Quite identical with Mr. 

 Gould's specimens in the Museum of the Philadelphia Academy, and from a 

 new locality for this species, but probably like nearly all its relatives, — a 

 great wanderer. 



" South Atlantic Ocean, September, 1853." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



159. Daption CAPEXsis, (Linnaeus.) 



From the Cape of Good Hope and South Pacific Ocean. 



160. PrFFisus KcHLii, Bonaparte. 



From the Cape of Good Hope. Specimens in excellent plumage appear to 

 be the species designated by Prince Bonaparte as above, and differ from P. 

 major as stated by that distinguished author. 



" Taken with hook and line at sea, off the Cape of Good Hope, Sept. 11th, 

 1853. Land distant about fifty miles." (Mr. F. H. Storer.) 



161. Necteis TENUiROSTRis, (Temmiuck.) 



From Japan. A small dark lead-colored species, very accurately described 

 and figured in " Fauna Japonica." 



" Taken off the east coast of Niphon, Japan, in lat. 36° N." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



162. Thalassideoma Wilsonii, (Bonaparte.) 



" Gulf Stream, off the coast of Virginia, June, 1853." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



163. Thalassideoma melanogastra, Gould. 



From the Cape of Good Hope and the Pacific Ocean. The former seems to 

 be a new locality for this species, and the specimen differs from others in the 

 collection of the expedition in having the throat black. We find, however, 

 similar specimens in Mr. Gould's collection in the Museum of the Philadelphia 

 Academy. 



"Taken in the South Indian Ocean by Lieut. Van Wyck and Dr. Stuart of 

 the Porpoise, December, 1853." (Mr. Stimpson.) 



'•Eyes black, male, lat. 40« 25' S., long. 126« 12' E." (Lieut. Van Wyck.) 



"Thirty miles south of the Cape of Good Hope, September, 1853." (Mr. 

 F. H. Storer.) 



1862.] 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



With this species we close the Catalogue of the present very interesting collec- 

 tion. In that part of Commodore Rodger's Report relating to natural history, 

 we hope to give figures of the most remarkable species, as well as further 

 notes on their manners and habits, by the naturalists who accompanied the 

 expedition. 



July Is?, 1862. 

 Dr. Bridges, Yice-President, in the Chair. 

 Fifteen members present. 



July Sth, 1862. 

 Dr. Bridges, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Thirteen ^embers present. 



July loth, 1862. 

 Dr. Bridges, Yice-President, in the Chair. 

 Nine members present. 



July 22d, 1862. 

 Dr. Coaxes in the Chair. 



Six members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication, and referred to 

 Committees : 



Notes on the family of Scombroids. By Theo. Gill. 



Notes on the genera of Fishes of Western North America. By Theo. 

 Gill. 



July 29th, 1862. 



Dr. Bridges, Vice-President, in the Chair, 



Thirteen members present. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published in the Proceedings : 



Note on the Family of SCOMBROIDS. 



BY TnEODORE GILL. 



Incited by the discovery of the existence of radiating spines at the angle of 

 the preoperculum as a characteristic feature of the youth of the Carangoids. 

 I turned my attention to the family of Scombroids, and have ascertained that 

 the same feature exists in that family. The Scoinbroids, then, in eriretne 

 1/outh, have the preoperculum armed with three sjyines, above and below which are 

 generaUji smaller ones, all of which are afterwards absorbed in the substance of 

 the bone. I have myself verified this law on the young of a new species of 

 Sarda, of which a single specimen, about an inch and five-eighths in length. 



[July. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



was obtained at Cape St. Lucas by Mr. Xantus. The Dicrotus armatus ot 

 Giintlier was also founded on a young fish, of which it was remarked by it& 

 describer, with a happy foresight, that "several of the characters mentioned 

 may be modified in a mature state." That species might, indeed, but for the 

 homogeneity of the dorsal and anal fins, be considered as the young of Pro- 

 metheus prometkeoidcs. As Dr. Giinther has, however, positively denied 

 pinnules to the genus, and, as the pinnules appear to be developed in the 

 young as well as the old, the genus Dicrotus may, until further known, be 

 regarded as distinct. 



The subfamily of Orcyninse, as characterized in a former paper, might, 

 perhaps, be rather subdivided, if the number of pyloric appendages should 

 be found to be coincident with other characters. In that case the following 

 arrangement might be advisable : 



SCOJIBRIN^. 



OrcyxiNvE. — Caudal peduncle of adult with a median adipose carina, and two 

 converging backwards, one above and one below. Pyloric caeca dendri- 

 tical or very numerous. 



Thyksitix^. — Caudal peduncle not carinated. Pyloric cseca developed in 

 moderate or rather small numbers, (7 — 10.) 



Gempylin^. 



The genus Acanthocybium* having the spinous dorsal longer than the soft, 

 the proportions of those fins cannot be used in the present state of our know- 

 ledge to distinguish the two subfamilies. 



The name Orycnus has been, by an unfortunate misapprehension, applied 

 instead of Orcyuus ; and it is hoped that the latter will in all cases be sub- 

 stituted as the correct orthography. 



Note on some Genera of FISHES of Western North America. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



In the Proceedings of the Academy for July, 1861, a number of genera 

 have been established for species previously described from the western 

 waters of North America. In the present article, several aditional genera 

 are introduced ; and to formerly established ones, species described under 

 other generic names have been referred. 



SCORP^NOIDS. 

 Sebastichthys Gill. 

 This genus embraces all the species referred to the genus Sebastes, which 

 has eleven to twelve (XI. -J- I. — XII. -\- I.) spines in the first dorsal fin, pala- 

 tine teeth and the physiognomy of Sebastes (Norvegicus. ) I believe that I may 

 be permitted to announce, that Dr. Ayres, in a letter of May 6th, has informed me 

 that he knows eleven species belonging to the Cuvierian genus Sebastes to be 

 inhabitants of the Californian waters. Five of them have been referred to 

 the genus Sebastes and six to Sebastodes, the latter having been modified to 

 embrace the species of which the head is ' ' nearly smooth, ' ' while the name 

 Sebastes is restricted to those of which "the summit of the head is strongly 

 ridged." Such a division appears to me to bn inadmissible, and I believe 

 that Sebastodes must be retained with the characters I have assigned to it, 

 while all other described species of California belong to one and the same 

 nat\iral genus, for which the name Sebastichthys has been proposed. The 



* The Cyhium petus of Poey and C. solandri C. V. are irue species of this genus. 



1862.] 




330 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



only species of whose affinity I entertain any doubt is the S. elongatus Ayres ; 

 that species, however, appears to be either a Sebastichthys or closely related 

 to that genus. As to the number of species, I am disposed to doubt whether 

 all are valid or even distinct from each other ; the S. helvomaculatus Ayres 

 iippears to be identical with S. ocellatus Cuv. et Val. As Dr. Ayres kindly 

 announces his intention to forward a full series, I trust soon to be enabled to 

 satisfy myself regarding such doubtful points. 



1. Sebastichthys nigkocinctus = Sebastes nigrocinctus Ayres. 



CARANGOIDS. 

 Paeatkactus Gill.* 

 Pakateactus boops. Syn. Trachurus boops Grd. 



GOBIOIDS. 

 EUCICLOGOBIUS Gill. 

 Eucyclogobius diflfers from Lepidogobius in form, nudity of the head and 

 the smaller second dorsal fin. 



2. EcrcYCLOGOBius Newberkyii. Sijn, Gobius Newberrii Girard. 



GOBIESOCOIDS. 



Caulaechus Gill. 

 The present genus differs principally from Gobiesox Lac. (= Sicyogaster 

 Barneville) by the nearly equal size of the dorsal and anal fins, and the 

 nearly horizontal direction of the six compressed trenchant incisors of the 

 lower j aw. 



3. Caulaechus eeticulatcs. Syn. Lepodogaster reticulatus Girard. 



CYCLOPTEROIDS. 



Eumiceotkejius Gill. 

 Diflfers from Cyclopterus Artedi by the smaller branchial apertures situated 

 at the horizon of the eyes, and by the development of the spinou? dorsal fin. 

 The type is the Cyclopterus spinosus of Miiller. 



Ecmicroteemus oebis. Syn. Cyclopterus orbis Gthr. 



SALMONOIDS. 

 Hypsifario Gill. 

 This genus embraces a single known species, distinguished by its com- 

 pressed body, projecting snout, &c. 



Hypsifario kennerlyi. Syn. Salmo kennerlii Suckley. 



PLEURONECTOIDS.t 

 Lepidopsetta Gill. 

 Lepidopsetta umbkosa = Psettichthys umbrosus Grd. 



Hypsopsetta Gill. 

 Hypsopsetta guttplatus = Pleuronichthys guttulatus Grd. 



Oethopsetta Gill. 

 Orthopsetta soedida = Psettichthys sordidus Grd. 



Ueopsetta Gill. 

 Uropsetta californica := Hippoglossus califoruicus Ayres. 



* Type Caranx pisquetos C. F. = C. chrysos aiict. nec Mite. 

 t A synopsis of ihis family may be soon expected. 



[July, 




"Natural sciences op Philadelphia. 331 



TETRAODONTOIDS. 



Gastbophyscs Miiller. 

 GASTBOPHTsrs POLiTrs. Syn. Tetraodon politus Girard. 



STURIONOIDS. 

 AxTACEus Fitz. and Heckel. 

 Ax'TACEus BKACHYEHTNCHUS. Syn. Acipenser brachyrhvnclius Ayres. 

 Antaceus teassmoxtanus. Syn. Acipenser transmontanus Rich. 

 Aktaceus mbdieostkis. Syn. Acipenser medirostris Ayres. 

 AxTACEus AcuTiEosTBis. Syn. Acipenser acutirostris Ayres. 



CEniJEROWS. 



Hydrolagus Gill. 

 Distinguished from Chimrera on account of the absence of an anal fin and 

 the triple division of the sexual organs of the male. 



Htdkolagus colliei. Si/n. Chimsra coUiei Lay and Bennett. 

 HETERODO]N^TOIDS. 



Gyropleueodus Gill. 

 GYBOPLEUBODrs FRAxcscii ^ Cestracion francisci Grd. 

 MYLIOBATOIDS. 

 HoLOKHnors Gill. 

 This genus is founded on a species which differs from Myliobatis by the 

 transverse entire snout. The median teeth are very broad, and the lateral 

 hexagonal ones have nearly equal sides. 



HoLOBHiNus VESPEETiLio. Syn. Rhinoptera vespertilio Girard. 



PETROMYZONTOIDS. 

 Lampetra Gray. 

 Lampetba plumbea. Syn. Petromyzon plumbeus Ayres. 



EXTOSPHEXUS Gill. 

 Entosphenus teidextatus = Petromyzon tridentatus Rich. = P. lividus Grd. 

 " EPiHEXODOX ^ " tridentatus Grd. (nee Rich.) 



" crLiATiJS = " cilia tus Ayres. 



" ASTOKi = " astori Grd. 



The following list of the genera belonging to the Fauna of the Western coast 

 of America north of Gape San Diego, not presented in Dr. Girard's Report, 

 and exclusive of those in my " Notes," may be of use : 



Peecoids. Stereolepis Ayres. 



PniELEPTEEOiDS. Girella Gray. 



Sci.ExoiDS. Rhinoscion Gill (vice Amblodon Grd.) Menticirrhus GUI (vice 



Umbrina Grd. fide spec.) Genyonemus Gifl (vice Leiostomus Ayres, 



Grd.) Atractoscion Gill. Cynoscion Gill, (Ayres.) Seriphus Ayres. 

 Labeoids. Semicossyphus Gthr. Choerojulis Gill. 

 EMBioTocorDS. Hypsurus A. Ag. Holconotus Ag. Cymatogaster Gib. (vice 



Holconotus Grd.) Hyperprosopon Gib. (vice Ennichthys Grd.) H^-po- 



critichthys Gill. Brachyistius Gill. 

 Cabangoids. Naucrates Raf., Gthr. 

 Stbomateoids. Poronotus Gill, (Ayres.) 

 1862.] 




SS2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



EcHENETDOiDS. Echeneis L. Remora Gill. 



CoTTOiDS. Potamocottus Gill, (Cottopsis gulosus Grd.') Oncocottus Gill. 

 Gymnacanthus Sw. Temnistia Rich. Blepsias Cuv. 



Agonoid^. Podothecus Gill,^ (= Paragonus Gill.^ 



Chiroids. Oxylebius Gill. 



Trichodontoids. Tricliodon Sfeller. 



GoBioiDS. Lepidogobius Gill. 



Blennioids. Anoplarchus Gill, Gunther. 



PsYCHROLUTOiDS. Psychrolutes Gtkr. 



AuiiORHYNCHOiDS. Aulorhynchus Gill. 



Alepidosauroids. Caulopus Gill. 



Salmonoids. Hypomesus Gill, {Isipsu ca,\&va.i Qti&va. Mesopus.) Osmerus Art. 



(vice Thaleichthys Grd.) 

 Cyprinodontoids. Cyprinodon Lac. (Grd.) 

 Clupeoids. Alausa Val. 

 MtiR^NoiDS. Mursena L. (Ayres.) 

 OPHiDitrRoiBS. Myrichthys Girard. 

 SYNGNATHoros. Dermatostethus Gill. 

 Galeorhinoids. No 7. gen. Isoplagiodou Gill, a sp. 

 RHttfoiDS, Rhina Klein, {Ayres.) 



Aug. ^th. 

 Vice-Presideut Bridges in the Chair. 

 Ten members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 A Report upon Mr. Buckley's Description of Plants, No. III., Gra- 

 mineae. By Asa Gray. 



Notes on certain Reptiles of the New World. By E. D. Cope. 



Aug. 2Qth. 



Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Thirteen raembers present. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published in the Proceedings : 



A Report upon Mr. S.B. Buckley's " Description of PLANTS, No. 3, Gramineae." 

 Published in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia, February, 1862. 



BY ASA GRAY. 



As it appears to have been impracticable to act upon the suggestion with 

 which I concluded my remarks upon Mr. Buckley's preceding botanical papers, 

 (vide p. 168,) all that remains is, to repair the damages sustained by this 



* Deceived by the comparisons of authors, the identity o{ Podothecus peristkethus with 

 Agontis acipenseroides was not recognized until an opportunity was afforded of examin- 

 ing Tilesius' description and figure. 



[August, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



foray as well as we can, sincerely hoping that it may be the last. The speci- 

 mens which Mr. Buckley has here described having been kindly collected (a 

 few excepted which have not yet been found) by the Botanical Curators, I re- 

 ferred them, in the first instance, to our best instructed agrostologist, Professor 

 George Thurber. His careful and conscientious notes (except in a few in- 

 stances) form the basis and substance of the following report. I have, how- 

 ever, verified them as far as I could ; and I hold myself responsible for the 

 statements herewith presented. If some of my comments be thought severe, 

 it should be understood that Mr. Buckley was duly warned of the injury he 

 was about to inflict upon science, and was besought to submit the specimens 

 of his supposed new species of grasses to some competent agrostologist be- 

 fore publication. This disregard of good counsel and reckless miscalculation 

 of scientific fitness for such undertakings, and the astonishing breach of 

 comity and confidence (to use the gentlest words) by gross appropriation or 

 suppression of the names of Nuttall and others, recorded in a public herba- 

 rium, which the following pages disclose, are traits which seem to illustrate 

 and explain each other. 



Polypogon alopecuroides, Buckley. The first thing to notice is, that 

 Mr. Buckley has suppressed Nuttall's name, under which he communicated 

 the plant to the Academy's herbarium, and doubtless to the Hookerian, if 

 not to other herbaria, — viz. : Deyeuxia alopecuroides! Then he has mistaken 

 the genus at least as widely as Nuttall did. In fact, this grass differs from 

 Agrostis exarata, Trin. in nothing notable except in its denser and lobate 

 panicle and in the awn ; which last Bongard detected in some specimens of 

 A. exarata. If distinct, Nuttall's specific name will be adopted, unless the 

 plant is already published under some other ; i. e., it will be Agrostis alope- 

 curoides. We have a far larger form of it from Hooker's Oregon duplicates, 

 without a name. 



Vilfa agrostoidea. No specimens so ticketed have yet been found. 

 But one of Sporoholus cryptandrus, ticketed by Mr. Buckley "Agrostis, North- 

 ern Texas," is probably the plant in question. 



Sporobolus (Vilfa) angustus is Sporoholus Indicus, R. Br., Agrostis In- 

 dica, L. Having adopted the genus Vilfa in the preceding and following 

 cases, Mr. Buckley has a curious way of including it under Sporobolus 

 besides. 



Vilfa r i g i d a is Calamagrostis gigantea, Nutt., also C. longifoha, Hook. 



Vilfa (Sporobolus) alba. Here, vice versa, Sporobolus is subordinated to 

 Vilfa ; and the present new species of this double-headed genus is Eatonia 

 obtusata ! 



Sporobolus (Vilfa) arenaceus, (again this side up !) is described from 

 No. 737 of Wright's collection, and the fact suppressed : it is Sporobolus 

 asperifolius, Nees and Meyen, fide Munro. 



Uralepsis (Tricuspis) elongata, which is the same as 2054 of Wright's 

 coll., and 307 of one of Drummond's collections, is Tricuspis trinervightmis, 

 Munro, MSS., near T. mulica, Torr. 



Vilfa (Sporobolus) varians, described from some specimen of Nuttall's, 

 which is not yet found. 



Sporobolus (Vilfa) diffusi ssimus is S. airoides Ton. 



Vilfa (Sporobolus) Sabeana Is S. Coromandelianus, Kunth (non Trin.), 

 an old and widely diffused species, to which, according to Col. Munro, belong 

 S. commutatus, Kunth and Trinius, S. argutus, Kunth, S. Arkansanus, Trin.. 

 and Vilfa ambigua, Steud. 



1862.] 




834 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Agiostis aquatic a, from Texas. No specimen of this is communicated. 



Agrostis scabriuscula is founded on a specimen of familiar A. scahra. 

 ticketed by Nuttall " Agrostis scabrata" the name a little altered. 



Agrostris albicans is founded on a slender form oi A, exarata, Ivm., 

 named by Nutiall A. Oregonensis. 



Muhlenbergia arenicola is M. gracillima, Torr., in Whippl. Rep. It is 

 Wright's No. 735, and Fendler's 968 and 969. The specimens described are 

 from Wright's collection. 



Muhlenbergia monticola is founded on Wright's specimens Nos. 731 and 

 733, which were referred by Col. Munro to 31. sylvatica, Torr., var. ligulin 

 elongatis, foliis angustis. 



Muhlenbergia pauci flora is described from a scanty, depauperate speci- 

 men of Wright's No. 732, — the source concealed as usual, and the character 

 no better than would be expected. The species is, so far as we know, a new 

 one, allied to M. Willdenovii. 



Muhlenbergia T e x a n a. No specimen communicated under this name, but 

 one given by Mr. Buckley to the Academy's herbarium under the name of 

 ^'■Agrostis barbatis, Buckl." may, from the description, be the plant intended. 

 This is a form of Sporobolus ramulosus. 



Oalamagrostis Oregonensis. Mr. Buckley's ticket is thrown into a sheet 

 containing three specimens of Nuttall's, respectively ticketed by him " Oalama- 

 grostis purpurascens, Columbia River," " C. gracilis, Dry Plains, Columbia," 

 and " C. pumila, Rocky Mountains." The first of these belongs to C. Langs- 

 dorffii, Trin. and C. strigosa, Bong., (between which we can draw no valid dis- 

 tinction;) the other two appear to belong to C. stricta, Trin. or C. Lapponica, 

 which are also combined by some. From Mr. Buckley's pleonastic phrase, 

 " aristis5'»f el pilis corollam excedentibus," it may be supposed that he was 

 describing only the first-named specimen ; but the " panicula 3-5-policari 

 longis" [sic] seems to include all three. (Nuttall's C. Cohtmbiensis, ined., we 

 may remark, seems also to be C. Langsdorjfii, a form with the awn inserted 

 much above the middle, and exactly C. elata, Biytt., from Norway.) 



Calamagrostis rubescensis indicated as " Oregon, Nuttall ;" but Nuttall's 

 ticket is not preserved. The specimen is an imperfect fragment. The spikelets 

 in structure perfectly accord with those of the next, of which we suppose it 

 to be a coarctate form. It would agree very well with the character of C. 

 varia, va,r. purpurascens, FI. Ross., but not with C.purpurasccns, R. Br. 



Calamagrostis albicans is described from Nuttall's specimen of his '• C. 

 pallida," this name on the ticket erased, and " albescens, Buckl." substituted, 

 and that changed to " albicans.'' The plant we take to be C aleutica, Bong. 

 It is allied to some forms of C. varia, (into which C. sylvatica appears to merge,) 

 but is probably quite distinct. 



Aristida curtiseta is founded on depauperate specimens of A. purpurea. 

 such as were gathered in Sitgreaves' Expedition. 



Aristida pauciflorais A. oligantha, Michx. 



Aristida filipendula is A. purpurea, Nutt., a form near the var. ^e-r- 

 landieri, Trin. The species is polymorphous. 



Bouteloua p um i 1 a is B. pohjstachya, Torr., Pacific R. R. Surv. 5, {Chondro- 

 sium, Benth.) a small-flowered form of the species. Described from some ot 

 Wright's No. 754. 



Bouteloua brevifolia is^. criopoda, Torr. Described from Wright's 748 



[August, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 335 



and Fendler's 950, (not 946 as on the ticket in herbarium Acad.,) — with the 

 usual omission to mention it. 



Uralepis (Tricuspis) brevicuspidata is Leptochloa dubia,'!iiees, Chloris 

 (hibia, H.B.K. (767, Wright.) 



Uralepis (Trieuspisj pilosa, described from Wright's specimens, No. 781, 

 the ticket of which bore the note " Tricuspis, n. sp." in Mr. Thurber's hand- 

 writing, is Tricuspis acuminata, Munro, in herb., mixed with one specimen of 

 T. avenacea, Thurber, (Triodia avenacea, H.B.K.) It is also Wright's 2058, 

 Fendler's 915, and Lindheimer's 738. 



Uralepis (Tricuspis) po oe o i de s, founded on Fendler's No. 932 (and duly 

 credited !) was long ago published, and the number cited as EragrostU Fendleri- 

 ana, Steud., Glum., 1, p. 278; and it is Sclerochloa Californica, Munro, in Pi. 

 Hartw. p. "342. 



Uralepis (Tricuspis) densi flora (same as Drammond's 274 and 278, 

 2d coll.) is Windsoria stricta, Nuti., therefore Tricuspis stricta. (No, 314 of Drum- 

 mond's same collection is T. albescens, Munro, ined.) 



Uralepis (Tricuspis) composita is a well-known large form of Leptochloa 

 fascicularis, Gray, Man. What is meant by " leaves at the joints of the culm 

 without sheaths and stems," we need not endeavor to make out. 



Uralepis (Tricuspis) p i 1 o s a, — the second of the same name, — is Tricuspis 

 mutica, Torr., in Pacific R. R. Surv., 4, p. 156, a large form, with hirsute 

 sheaths, better developed. The lower palea often bears a minute mucro. It 

 is described from one of Wright's specimens, in whose collection it is Nos. 779, 

 780 and 2046. 



Pleuraphis mutica. Upon this Professor Thurber remarks: " I think this 

 may be a good species. It differs from P. Jamesii (Fendl. 946) in the glumes 

 of the lateral spikelets, which are cuneate-obovate, 5-7-nerved, and do not 

 enclose the flowers, but form a sort of involucre, as in Elymus. Glumes of 

 the central spikelet 2-cleft, 5-nerved ; the nerves confluent below, the middle 

 one produced as an awn, which is shorter than the lacerate- fringed laciniae. 

 Lower palea of the perfect flower muticous." It is Wright's 760 and 2108. 



Glyceria b u 1 b o s a. This is founded on a diminutive bit of stem and two 

 separate spikelets of Nuttall's, named by him '' Bromus {Phrenachyris) muticus. 

 Upon the sheet Prof. Thurber had last year noted " Glyceria bulbosa, Thurb.," 

 a plant so named by him in the Botany of Wilkes' Expedition, yet unpublished. 

 Whereupon, Mr. Buckley furtively erases the " Thurb." and substitutes " Buckl.'' 

 If we mistake not, the species has been published under two names already, 

 viz., Melica poceoides, Nutt., in PL Gamb., &c., and Melica bulbosa, Geyer. in 

 Hook. Kew. Jour. Bot. 8, p. 19. 



Glyceria stricta, if reckoned as a normally pluriflorous grass, is no Glyce- 

 ria, but would be ambiguous between Uniola and Brizopyrum. We have reason 

 to regard it, however, as an abnormal state of Vilfa Druimnondii, Trin., which 

 is a form of V. aspera, Beauv. In this the palece are often elongated in this 

 fashion, (but not nerved, as some of them are in Mr. Buckley's specimen,) and 

 the tendency to develope one or more additional flowers in the spikelet is not 

 rarely manifest. 



Glyceria leptostachya and G. raicrotheca are both alike, and both 

 Nuttall's MSS. names, which Mr. Buckley has appropriated in the coolest man- 

 ner writing " Buckl." after the name upon Nuttall's autograph tickets. They be- 

 long to a grass, common in Oregon and northward, which differs a little from G. 

 pallida of the Northern States, (in the rather broader and shorter florets and 

 shorter and more rounded glumes,) and which already has names enough, being 



1862.] 




336 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



doubtless the G. pauciflora of Presl., as it certainly is the G. spectabilis, var. 

 fiaccida, Trin. and Bongard, from Russian America and Kamtschatka ; there- 

 fore, G. Norveffica, according to Ruprecht, Poa arnndinacea, of Biebersteia (and 

 so G. arundinacea, Kunth), according to Grisebach, and G. remota. of Frie?, on 

 the same authority. But authentic S^vedish and Norwegian specimens of G. 

 remota, Fries, do not well accord with the N. W. American plant, especially in 

 the glumes. 



Glyceria montana. Another appropriation of a MSS. name of Nuttall, 

 Could Nuttall complain, however, he should transpose the words of the poet 

 and say, " He that filches my ffood name steals trash ;" for the species is "poor 

 indeed." He who so confidently enters upon Nuttall's labors should be com- 

 petent to discern the patent fact that this Glyceria montana of Nuttall's is just 

 the same as his Poa airoi'ks, of which the original specimen is preserved in 

 the same sheet. G. airoides would be the name, (Steudel's homonym being 

 an Prac/i-ostis, as he himself asserts) ; but Col. Munro reduces it to G. {Airopif) 

 distans. 



Poa laxiflora — the name appropriated from Nuttall, as usual — whatever 

 else it may be, accords with P. leptocoma, Trin., from Sitcha, It is probably a 

 woodland form of an old species. 



Poa t e n u i f o 1 i a — still another of Nuttall's unblushingly appropriated — is 

 a common grass west of the Rocky Mountains, which has much puzzled bota- 

 nists, and occurs in herbaria and some published lists under several names. It 

 is Atropis Califor?iica, Munro, ined. (probably founded on Douglasian speci- 

 mens, coll. 1833), and exactly the plant so named from Fidalgo Island. But 

 Hartweg's No. 2035, correspondingly named (Sclerochloa Californica) seems to 

 be rather different. Atropis is equivalent to Glyceria sect. Heleochloa, of which 

 this must be only an ambiguous member. 



Poa densifloraisP. arachnifera, var. (i. Torr., in Marcy, Rep. p. 301 ; a 

 form with the long wool either scanty or almost wanting, except in one old spe- 

 cimen. 



Eragrostis diffusa is the common E. Purshii, Bernh. 



Eragrostis curtipedicellata (ticketed b r e v i p e d i c e 11 a t a) is a fa- 

 miliar-looking species, not identified among the published ones — the same as 

 Drummond's 327 of the second collection, and Wright's 772. 



Eragrostis sessilispica is Lcptochloa riyida, Munro. It is Fendler's 926. and 

 Wright's 7G0 and 2091. 



Festuca gradient a is founded on specimens quite too young and poor to 

 be meddled with. It may be either of three described species, more likely F. 

 microstachys, Nutt., which is near F. bromoides. 



Festuca reflexa — another name of Nuttall's appropriated — is F. microsta- 

 chys, var. divergens, Torr., probably well referred to that multiform species. 



Festuca pu s i 1 1 a— boldly appropriated from Nuttall, as usual — accords 

 with No. 2030 of Hartweg's collection, which Col. Munro refers to Festuca mi- 

 crostachys, except in its smoothness. 



Bromus breviaristatus. This is described from a specimen of NuttaH's, 

 named by him ^' Bromus parviflorus, to which Prof Thurber had appended the 

 note " Bromus breviaristatus {Ccratochloa, Hook.)" So Mr. Buckley claps his 

 " Buckl." to the ticket, and prints his " new species," sagely adding his mark 

 of doubt to the synonym. 



Bromus virens is founded on B. virens, nitens and Californicus, of Nuttall. 

 all the same species, and all Ceratochloa yrandijiora, Hook., as a note of Prof. 

 Thurber's had pointed out; but Mr. Buckley suppresses the clue. 



[August. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 337 



Broraus setaceosisjB. steriUs, L. ; probably introduced. 



Uaiola (Brizopyrum) flexuosais Brizopyrum spicatum, Hook, and Am. 



Elymus interruptus. We cannot quite match tliis among the various 

 puzzling forms of the genus from Texas. 



Elymus t r i t i c o i d e s — another name furtively appropriated from Xuttall — 

 is a depauperate form of No. 2072, Hartweg, (and nearly of 2072, Wright), 

 named by Col. Munro E. dasystachys, Trin., var. E. condensatus, Presl. 



Elymus gl a u c u s — also Nuttall's — appears scarcely, if at all, distinct from 

 E. Sibiricus, L. 



Trisetum glabrum is Aira danthonioides, Trin., the same as Hartweg's 

 2027 ; new to Texas. 



Trisetum i n t e r r u p t u m is T. elongatum, H.B.K. ; it is in Lindheimer's and 

 in one of Wright's earlier collections. 



Trisetum canescens is the more hairy-leaved and striate form of T. cer- 

 nuum, Trin., described from the specimen of " T. elatiim," Nutt., which name 

 Mr. Buckley has erased from the ticket, for no obvious reason (as the name is 

 a good one), except to give some variety in form to his depredations. 



Hierochloa o c c i den ta li s, — Nuttall's name appropriated as usual — is//. 

 borealis, Roem. & Schult. 



Happily Mr. Buckley has spared the Panicecu and the Andropoginece; for which, 

 in the interest of all American botanists, I tender him my sincere thanks. 



Notes upon some REPTILES of the Old World. 

 BY E. D. COPE. 



Atheris squamatns Cope. 



Toxicoa squamata Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1859, p. 341. 



Echls squamatns Hallow. 

 Professor Jan states* that Schlegel's Vipera chlorocehis (Tosicoa, Cope, 1. c.) 

 possesses keeled gular scales as in Tropidolamus. I find that Eckis squamata 

 of Hallowell exhibits the same peculiarity. In this respect these species differ 

 from Echis arenicola Gray ; moreover, they are tree-vipers, having a 

 compressed body, angular gastrosteges and prehensile tails, just as in the 

 American tree-moccasins, — species of Thamnocenchris, Salvin, and Teleuras- 

 pisf Cope. They further represent these genera in having uniserial uros- 

 teges. The keeled gular scales are found in Tropidolsemus, another Crotalid 

 genus whose species abound in Malaysia ; and Megaera, also one of the Cro- 

 talidse, is an evident representative in the forest.s of Ceylon. 



A very different type among the Solenogly^jha ( Viperidcn Cope) is the family 

 Atractaspididse {-ince Cope.) Atractaspis and Brachycranium appear to be well 

 defined genera. Whether Polemon Jan belongs here, and how it differs from 

 Atractaspis, has not been stated. The Elaps irregularis Reinhardt, placed by 

 Jan in that genus, and identified by Giinther with the A. i n o r n a t u s, is evi- 

 dently the type of an unnamed genus. It differs from the other genera in its 

 biserial urosteges. From Homeroselaps Jan, {Paecilophis Gth., preoccupied 

 among Apodes), it differs externally in the two nasal shields. It may be 

 called Eurystephus. 



* Rev. Mag. Zool., 1859, No. 12, 



t Mr. Falvin speaks of Teleuraspis (P. Z. S., 1860, 459), as being cylindrical in form. 

 However this may be with the T. n J tidus, the T. so hlegeli i has a prehensile tail, 

 and is much compressed. 



1862.] 23 




338 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Tarbophis sp. I have seen a specimen of a species of this genus, from 

 Ooroomiah, Persia, which is possibly different from that found in Southern 

 Europe. The head is relatively shorter, the vertical and particularly the 

 occipital plates being less elongate. There are ten upper labials, all narrow 

 and high, the fourth, fifth and sixth bounding the orbit. In Bonaparte's 

 coll. specimen there are eight, eye over third, fourth and fifth as described by 

 Dumeril and Guuther; the seventh is very minute, the eighth horizontal. 

 There are eleven inferior labials ; twelve in the Ooroomiah specimen, which 

 has also three postoculars. Coloration much as in the v i v a x ; there is a 

 narrow vertebral line and the belly is very dark. 



What this serpent should be named, if requiring it, is uncertain. The 

 plates in Eichwald and Savigny's works resemble it, while the figures of 

 Schlegel, Fleischmann and of the " Voyage dans la Russie Meridionale, " etc. 

 are different. 

 Natrix leopardina. 



Callopeltis leopardina, Fauna Italica. 



This species bears considerable resemblance to Pityophis c a t e n i f e r. 

 There seems to be no reason why Laurenti's original name for the Callopeltis 

 or Coluber flavescens of some authors should not be retained as well as 

 his Coronella, Naja and Dipsas ; especially in view of the want of uniformity 

 in the practice of naturalists in the matter. Besides the names above men- 

 tioned, the genus has received those of Scotophis (Baird at Girard) and Elaphis 

 (Hallow, fide Dum.) 



It contains the species longissima {Col. flavescens auct.), quad- 

 rilineata, leopardina, rufodorsata, conspicillat a, manda- 

 rin a, callicephala, in the Old World ; quadrivittata, gut- 

 tata, laet a, con finis, rhinomega, vulpina, allegheniensis 

 and perhaps others, in North America. 



Tyria gracilis. 



From Ahmednuggur, India, has been received this species, quite recently 

 described by Dr. Giinther as Zamenis gracilis. Tyria is an older name 

 than Zamenis, hence we are compelled to write Tyria atrovirens, T. 

 ventrimaculata, T. hippocrepis, etc. While Periops Wagl. is 

 rightly regarded by Giinther as a synonym of Tyria, Fitzinger's Chilolepis, 

 typified by C. cliffo rdii, seems to be a valid genus not generally recog- 

 nized. The Coryphodon fasciolatus of Giinther, poorly described by 

 authors, seems to be a Tyria, if I have properly identified it. The separate 

 posterior upper maxillary tooth is shorter than usual in the genus. 



Bascanium anthicum. 



Scales in seventeen longitudinal rows. Teeth equal. Head moderately 

 distinct, plane in profile ; supcrcilia prominent, muzzle rounded. Rostral 

 plate much higher than broad, prominent. Seven or eight superior labials, 

 eye over third and fourth or fourth and fifth. Nasals high, loreal oblique, 

 as high as long. Two preoculars, inferior very small, superior not reaching 

 vertical. Two postoculars ; two large and two small temporals in contact 

 with occipitals ; the latter are rounded, broad, their common suture not so 

 long as the vertical plate. Superciliaries broad; vertical laterally concave: 

 postfrontals longer than prefrontals. Anal divided. Total length 34 inches ; 

 of rictus 10 lines ; of tail 9 inches 3 lines. 



Color black, varied with many yellow scales ; which are either single or 

 arranged in irregular spots ; beneath yellow. Head brown, with yellowish 

 brown spots which are most distinct on the occipital and labial regions. 



The native country of this species is not certainly known ; some circum- 

 stances lead me to think that it is from Siam. If so, we have another in- 

 stance of the close similarity of North American and Eastern Asiatic forms. 

 In Siam alone we have a Plethodon, and a form scarcely differing from 



[August, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



339 



Thamuophis, — viz.: Prvmnomiodon. Bascanium anthicum is very nearly 

 allied to B. constrictor: the only differences are in the outline of the 

 front — plane in the former, arched in the latter — the more convergent canthus 

 rostrales of the latter, and that of coloration. 



Uriechis nigriceps Peters, Homalosoma 1 u t r i x, Philothamnus s e m i- 

 variegatus, Bucephalus t y pu s vars. B. C. D., Causus rhombeatus 

 and Clotho a riet a ns have been sent to the Academy from Umvoti, Natal, 

 by our correspondent, the Rev. Dr. Grout. 

 Contia m o d e s t a. 



Ablabes modfistus Glinther. 



From Ooroomiah. This species belongs to the same genus as tbe American C. 

 episcopa and C. m i t i s, which principally differs from tbe Homalosoma* of 

 Africa in a divided anal plate. Perhaps the "Ablabes" with two nasal plates be- 

 long to a diflferent genus : at all events the name adopted by most herpetologists 

 must give way to Fitzinger's Lycodonomorphus, proposed for the Coronella 

 ru f u 1 a long previously.! Fitzinger did not give characters to his genera, on 

 which account they ought to be rejected, were it not that it is impossible for 

 naturalists to arrive at an agreement as to what constitutes a good, sufficient, 

 insufficient, or nul diagnosis. It seems also to be rightly conceded by many, 

 that an author cannot change his own name, if it be not preoccupied or false 

 in signification. Thus, Wagler's Catostoma should be retained, though he 

 afterwards altered it to Geophis (which I overlooked on a former occasion), 

 as it is sufficiently distinct from Catostomus. 



Rhoptrura Peters has been suspected by met to be identical with Charina 

 Gray, on account of the entrance of the style of structure of the plates as 

 described by Dr. Gray, within the extensive range of variation exhibited by 

 the latter genus. Prof. Peters has, however, shown that it does not possess 

 palatine teeth ; this character at once separates it from all other Peropoda. 



Cryptoblepharus wahlbergii Smith. 



From Umvoti, Southeastern Africa, whence also has been received Euprepis 

 V i 1 1 a t u s Gray, and a variety which is light olivaceous above ; on eacli 

 side a light band, which is dark- bordered above. Other markings obsolete. 



Gerrhosaurus bibronii Smith. 



Brown bordered. The internasal plate is very transverse, as figured by 

 Wagler in the f 1 a v i g u 1 a r i s, and widely removed- from contact with the 

 frontal by the extensive intervention of the contiguous fronto-nasals. Dr. 

 Smith figures the latter as separate, and the former in contact, in botli species. 



Mancus macrolepis Cope. 



Char. gen. — The same as that of Chamresaura, except in the absence of 

 the anterior pair of extremities. Tongue slightlj^ emarginate at the tip. 

 The animal upon which this genus is established, so closely resembles 

 in generic and specific peculiarities the Chamsesaura a n g u i n a, that it 

 may be doubted whether it is entitled to the distinction I have proposed 

 for it. Tlie question of the disappearance of organs is one of much interest. 

 Our impression of the importance of a peculiarity as affecting generic 

 or specific rank is derived from consideration of its constancy during 

 the adult age of the animal. That the assumption of generic structural 



* Another genus, which only differs from Homalosoma in its more slonder tail and 

 diacranterian dentition, is Cryptodacus, [Gmtdlach, Monatsb. Akad. Berlni, 1861,1002.) 

 Cvittatus is found in Cuba ; it was described in November. In the following Feb- 

 ruary the author introduced it as Arrhylon biviltatvm (in Proceed. Philada. Acad.) The 

 specimen dsscribed wants the dorsal band. 



t Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philada., I860, p. 256. 



t L. c, p. 305. 



1862.] 




S40 PROcr.EDiNGS or the academy of 



peculiarities* takes place at very different points in the advance of derelope- 

 ment of animals as compared with each other, all very well know.f If such 

 change took place only in case of unusually prolonged life of certain indi- 

 viduals, we would have an instance of what we call the undependability of a 

 character which we elsewhere rely on. This method of accounting among higher 

 groups especially, for this phenomenon (with which students of nature are so 

 familiar), may be worthy of being placed side by side with that which looks 

 upon it as a state of transition from a condition of inferior to one of supe- 

 rior adaptation to peculiar circumstances of life, — or with the usual ' ' acci- 

 dental variation" subterfuge. The number of toes is justly relied on as a 

 safe index to generic groups among Batrachia, Gradientia and Lacertilia, yet 

 in Amphiuma its value is very doubtful, and in Chalcides it is not only not 

 characteristic of the genus, but fails to be constant in the same species. 

 The difference between a limb scarcely developed and one obliterated, pos- 

 sesses no greater significance than the same case among the digits ; the genus 

 Trichiurus illustrates this. As regards the absent members in the genus 

 Mancus, they first appear (i. e. in Chamsesaura) in a condition of compara- 

 tively fulldevelopement. The history of the latter process is, however, neces- 

 sary in order to determine finally the validity of the separation of the genus 

 which I have proposed. 



The position of the two genera is near the Ecpleopodidae, as Dr. Gray 

 arranges them. In the Erpetologie Generale, Chamaesaura is one of the 

 heterogeneous group called Cyclosaura Ptychopleura. 



Char, specif. — Generally as in Chamsesaura anguina. The plates of 

 the head are the same ; they are elongate, especially the interparietal, which 

 is bounded on each side by two parietals. The scales are large, very acute 

 and strongly keeled, in only twenty-two longitudinal rows on the body, 

 (four less than in C. anguina,) of which the two dorsal are largest. 

 Thirtj'-six transverse series from temple to vent. Eight scales border the 

 vent ; one femoral pore. Tibia shorter than femur, not terminating in a 

 claw, both covered with keeled scales. 



Length of head and body 5 inches 10 lines ; of tail 19 inches 9 lines. 



General color pale brown, whitish beneath, shaded with coppery above. 

 Two brown bands extend from the occiput on the outer half of each median 

 row and all of the row next exterior, to the end of the tail. A trace of a 

 lateral band is seen on the second and third rows below the dorsal. 



This lizard was sent to the Academy of Natural Sciences from Natal, in a collec- 

 tion made by the Rev. Mr. Grout. Other species contained in it were Chamaleo 

 d 11 e p i s Leach, Monitor niloticus Gray. Stellio capensis Dum. , and 

 Agania nigricollis Smith. In the last it may be noted that the liver- 

 brown variations enclose three light brown rhombic spaces on the dorsal line. 

 General tint above rather dark brown. Fourth toe a trifle longer than third. 

 A strong dorso-lateral dermal fold on each side. 



Lacerta strigata Eichw. 



Regarded by Dumeril and Bibron as a variety of L. v i r i d i s, biit believed 

 to be distinct by Gray, Berthold and others. The specimen at my disposal 

 diifers from L. viridis, from the same region and from Italy, in its rela- 

 tively smaller head and smaller and more numerous plates of the collar. 

 The temporal shields ai-e quite similar. 



Dactylethra 1 a e v i s Gthr. 



Rana ?mascariensis D. B. 



General form slender ; head elongate, narrow, muzzle prominent. Distance 



* j. e. Those which illustrate a greater or less advance towards the extreme of diver- 

 gence iif the family series. 



t Vide Synopsis of Holcosus and Ameiva, etc , p. 6. 



[August, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



between external nares and orbit to that between nares and end of snout 

 as three to two. Skin without corrugations, but with numerous elongate longi- 

 tudinal plicae. Tympanum half the size of the orbit. Ostia pharyngea not 

 larger than internal nares. Vomerine teeth in nearly transverse series, com- 

 mencing at the anterior margin of the nares. No vocal vesicles. Second finger 

 little shorter than foirrth ; terminal phalanges, especially of the toes, acute. 

 One metatarsal tubercle. Web reaching the base of the antepenultimate pha- 

 lanx of the very long fourth digit; to the penultimate of the others. Length 

 of head and body 1 in. 3 lin. ; of posterior extremity 2 in. 1 lin. 



Above brown, with a pale median line from the end of the muzzle, and a 

 few darker brown small round spots. Superior labial and frenal regions pale. 

 A dark blotch covers the tympanum. Femora and tibise distantly brown- 

 banded. Beneath pure white. 



The specimens at my disposal possesses the peculiarity in the form of the 

 terminal phalanges, which is found in the R. hexadactyla and 1 e s c h e- 

 n a u 1 1 i i. The R. mascariensis is not recorded as occurring on the 

 African continent. 



Dicroglossus angustirostris Cope. 



Outlines of muzzle convergent at an acute angle ; the end obtuse, promi- 

 nent. Canthus rostralis rounded. Nostrils vertico-lateral. Interorbital space 

 a little wider than palpebra. Tympanum small, one-fourth the size of the 

 eye. Skin of the upper surfaces coarsely tuberculous. End of first fiuger 

 marking middle of third. Posterior extremities stout ; a tarsal and two meta- 

 tarsal tubercles. Toes half palmate. Tongue oval, obcordate. Ostia pha- 

 ryngea larger than posterior nares ; the latter very anterior. Muzzle to 

 hinder border of tympanum 4 lin. ; tympanum to end of coccyx 10 lin. ; 

 length of hinder extremity 1 in. 7 lin. 



General color dark brown, hinder extremities and labial regions varied with 

 darker. Below white, a large brown pectoral and several small labial spots. 

 Groin pale, brown spotted. 



Dicroglossus adolfi Gthr., the other known species of the genus, is Him- 

 melayan. The discovery of the present species extends the range of the genus 

 so as to coincide with that of Tomopterna, Bibr. 



Chilophryne d i a 1 o p h a Cope. 



Head broad ; miizzle prominent, conic. Cranium strongly ridged. Pre- and 

 postocular, supratympanic, and superciliary ridges well developed, the last 

 making a very open angle with that of the canthus rostralis, and sending off 

 posteriorly a parietal, which first converges toward that opposite, and then 

 runs transversely on the occiput to meet it ; failing in this by a very slight 

 interval. A small nuchal pit. Tympanum in contact with postorbital ridge, 

 only one-fourth the size of the orbit. Tongue small, narrov/, half free ; a 

 strong symphyseal tubercle fitting a premaxillary pit. Paratoids la:ge, short, 

 subtriangular, lateral. Skin everywhere rigidly rugose, subspinous on the 

 tarsus. The joints of the extremities are pale and appear swollen. Fingers 

 slender ; first shorter than second, which equals the third. One metacarpal 

 tubercle only. Toes short, one-third webbed ; two acute metatarsal tubercles, 

 the internal large, incurved, like a flattened spur, yellow, brown tipped. 

 Length of head and body 10 lines ; of hinder extremity 12 liuf'S. Above 

 dark brown, with a pale vertebral band, on either side of wliich are two 

 blackish dorsal spots, one temporal and one on the canthus rostralis. A black 

 band from orbit to angle of mouth. Beneath light brown, blackish shaded. 



This very distinct species is said to have been brought from the Sandwich 

 Islands by the American zoologist, John K. Townsend. Museum Academj-, 

 Philada. 



Hyperolius horstockii Gthr. and H. m a r m o r a t u s Rapp, have been 

 obtained at Umvoti in Natal by the Rev. Dr. Grout. 



1862.] 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Hyperoliiis c o n c o 1 o r. 



Ixalus concolor Hallow., Pr. A. N. S. Philada., 1857, p. 72. 



Hea 1 of medium size, as long as broad ; muzzle not projecting, canthus ros- 

 tralis straight, loreal region not concave. Tympanum concealed. Tongue 

 large, broadly obpyriform, deeply emarginate. Fingers scarcely palmate, 

 two terminal phalanges of fourth toe free. No tubercles or folds on the upper 

 surfaces. Length of head and body 1 inch 6 lines ; of hinder extremity 

 2 inches. Above dark brown ; the brachium and femur similar to the back. 

 No spots or bands. Below brownish white. 



This species does not appear to have been described by Dr. Hallowell. 

 Western Africa is its native country. 



Hyperolius cinetiventris Cope. 



Head quite broad ; muzzle truncate ; canthus rostralis concave. Frontal 

 region broad, convex ; eyes not very prominent. Tympanum concealed ; 

 tongue elongate broad and extensively notched posteriorly. Fingers one- 

 fourth, toes half webbed. All the inferior surfaces except the gular, granu- 

 late, the median abdominal most coarsely. A strong postgular fold ; another 

 surrounds the median abdominal region, including an acute angle at the 

 pubic region. A temporo-crural fold. Skin of upper surfaces with distant 

 small tubercles. Length of head and body nine lines. Light yellowish brown 

 above ; a narrow brown line through the eye. Entire femur and under sur- 

 faces of extremities, also the annular space between the abdomen and the 

 lateral and gular folds, black. 



Hyperolius spinifrons Cope. 



Tympanum concealed ; head not broad, muzzle rounded ; canthus rostralis 

 rounded, swollen ; nostrils anterior ; profile continuous to lip. Tongue ellip- 

 tic, deeply nicked ; inner nares widely separated. Skin of upper surfaces 

 smooth, excejit upon the front and muzzle, where it is studded with acute 

 tubercles as in the cyprinid genera Ceratichthys, etc. Digits slightly palmate. 

 Appressed femur scarcely exceeding elbow. Length of head and body one 

 inch. Beneath brownish yellow ; above yellowish brown, with a dark brown 

 lateral band between the eye and groin, which is pale bordered anteriorly ; 

 also a median band which commences between the eyes, and becomes wider 

 and more indistinct posteriorly. Extremities brown, immaculate ; femur not 

 paler than tibia ; brachium yellow all round at axilla. 



Hyperolius sugillatus Cope. 



Tympanum concealed. Head very broad, eyelids not much developed ; 

 outlines of muzzle convergent, truncate ; profile of its extremity vertical. 

 Tongue rounded, broadly em:»rginate ; ostia pharyngea well developed. Bra- 

 chium very short ; fingers slightly, toes three-fifths, webbed. Hinder extre- 

 mities long ; appressed femur reaching much beyond elbow. Skin above 

 weakly corrugated. Length of head and body one inch. Belly j'ellow ; 

 above straw color, a yellow band extending from end of muzzle to sacral re- 

 gion ; it is bounded beneath on the muzzle by a purple line ; there is also 

 a purple spot upon each eyelid, (whence the name.) 



The four species of Hyperolius here described as new, and the Crumenifera 

 p u s i 1 1 a, formed part of the very valuable collection made by Mr. Grout at 

 Umvoti. 



Hyperolius c o c c o t i s Cope. 



Muzzle prominent, subacute, canthus rostralis nearly straight. Frontal 

 space more than twice the breadth of a palpebra. Tongue as broad as long, 

 roundly emarginate. Ostia pharyngea smaller than posterior nares ; tympa- 

 num coiuenled. Skin of the upper surfaces smooth. A supra-axillary fold. 

 Coarse granulations posterior to orbit and round canthus of mouth ; abdomen 



[August, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



and femora coarsely areolated. Fingers one-fourth, toes more tlian half 

 webbed. Length of head and body 1 in. 5 lin. ; of hinder extremity 1 in. 

 9 lin. Above greenish blue, darkest on the head ; beneath yellowish. 



Crumenifera p u s i II a Cope. 



Fam. Polypedatidae : characters those of Hyperolius, except in the presence 

 of a large vocal vesicle, which is prolonged posteriorly and bound beneath by 

 a median frenum, on each side of which a plicate pouch projects deeply into 

 the vesicular cavity. 



Head small, muzzle short, truncate ; canthus rostralis concave. Tympanum 

 concealed. Tongue obovate, extensively free and deeply notched. Skin above 

 smooth ; of the abdomen transversely areolate ; of the femora smooth. Fingers 

 one-fourth, toes three-fourths webbed. Many granulations about the angle 

 of the mouth. Length of head and body 10 lines ; of hinder extremity 14 

 lines. Color (in alcohol) pale straw color ; a faint brown line on the canthus 

 rostralis. 



It may be mentioned in this connection, that the genus Heteroglossa of 

 Halloweil is a Polypedatid, not a Ranid as has been hitherto supposed. The 

 statement regarding mandibular teeth, " nine in the lower jaw," should be 

 read " none in the lower jaw." It diflers from Hyperolius in the less develope- 

 ment of the digital expansions and greater tenuity of the median attachment 

 of the tongue. 



Neurergus crocatus Cope. 



Of the family Salamandridse of the British Museum Catalogue,* and sub- 

 family Tritonin^e (Pleuroclelidce Gray, Proc. Zool. Soc. , 1858, 137), and second 

 section, where the fronto-temporal arch is replaced by a ligament. There is 

 a line of pores on the inferior lateral region ; paratoids present, small ; skin 

 rough ; tail much compressed ; tongue free laterally and posteriorly. 



This genus resembles Hemisalamandra (Duges not Cope ; Pyronicia Gray 

 part.) in every particular except the form of the tongue; in this it is similar to 

 Euproctus and GlossoHga ; it has not the fronto-temporal arch of these, 

 nor the os quadrato-jugale of the latter. Lissotriton differs in wanting para- 

 toids. The head is depressed as in Salamandra maculosa, but the muzzle is 

 more rounded, as in Amblystoma. The eyelids are slightly developed. The 

 palatine teeth are in two widely divergent series, whose angle of convergence 

 is opposite to the posterior holders of the interior nares. The latter are widely 

 separated. The skin of the sides is rather corrugated. The digits are all 

 depressed, without fringe and rather elongate ; the third and fourth posterior 

 are equal. The anterior extremity appressed, extends to the heel of the ap- 



* The sj'Stem adopted by Dr. Gray in the work alluded to, is evidently the true one. 

 The separation of the Spelerpine from the Amblystomidaj as a group of equal rank with 

 it, as proposed by the author of the present notice, is unnatural. Dr. Gray's later 

 arrangement of the ISalamandridae [SalamandrincB Cope) supplies a grrat desideratum, 

 which the autlior attempted later and in ignorance of the mem ^ir of the Knglish savant. 



On reviewing my former work in connection with the new light furnished by Dr. Gray, 

 the following seems lo be the nearest approximation to truth to which I can arrive at 

 present ; 



TritoninK {Tritones Cope, PleuroJ elides Gray.) Genera Pleurodeles, Glossoliga, No- 

 tophthjlma (this genus I now believe to be disiinct from the next,) Cynops (incl. Taricha 

 Gray), Euproctus (incl. Calotriton Gray), Lophinus Raf.ljncl. Ommafotriion Gray, equiva- 

 lent to Triton, lOmmalolriton Cop e, exclus.T. a 1 pest r is), Lissotriton (wants the para, 

 toids of Hemisalamandra; is not characterized by the freedom of the tongue posteriorly :* 

 includes Hemilrilon Duges, Gray, alp estris, in which I find a lateral line of pores,t) 

 Neurergus, Hemisalamandra {Triton ^Triton Cope, Pyronicia Gray,) Triton (Hcmiiala- 

 mandra Cope) : ten genera. 



* As stated Proc Acad. Nat. Sci., 1859, p. 127. 



■f In specimens labelled by Bonaparte; they are stated by Dr. Gray to be wanting. 



1862.] 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



pressed hinder limb. Soles smooth ; tarsus very broad. Tail longer than 

 head and body, not much elevated, compressed, subcylindrical at base: 

 a slight rudiment of a crest. Total length 6 inches 6 lines ; of tail 3 inches 

 6 lines. 



General color above brownish black ; this is everywhere relieved by large 

 oval yellow spots ; of the latter those on the inferior lateral region are more 

 or less confluent with the deep saffron of the abdomen. Chin and median 

 line of tail beneath rather paler than belly. 



The following verbal communication should have been inserted 

 under date of August 5th : 



Mr. Cope called attention to a curious Cuban Bufonid (Peltaphyrne empus a) 

 for the possession of which the Academy was indebted to Professor Philipe Poey 

 of Havana. The genus, which had not been previously characterized, differed 

 from Bufo and Chilophryne as did Trachycephalus from Hyla among tree- 

 toads ; i. e. in the dermo-osseous coating of the head. Thus two of the pre- 

 dominant genera of the regio neotropica are represented in this insular portion 

 of it by types differing from them in the same manner. The continental por- 

 tion of the region is known to abound in forms characterized by peculiar 

 dermo-ossifications. Such are its Batrachian genera Calvptocephalus, Brachy- 

 cephalus, Ceratophrys, Phrynocerus ; its Alligatoridffi, its Goniodontidje, and 

 shielded Nematognathi. 



In P. e m p u s a the ossification was more extensive than in P. p e 1 1 o c e- 

 p h a 1 a, and in one respect was farther developed than in the genera Phryno- 

 cerus and Ceratophrys ; inasmuch as a broad bridge connected the mastoid 

 and quadrato-jugal regions, extending posterior to the tympanum. The 

 coveriiig-in of the maxillo-quadrate sinus was a degree of ossification in both 

 species of Peltophryne not observed in the two genera mentioned ; nor did it 

 possess the (?) crotaphite foramen exhibited by them. Externally in the latter 

 region the dermo-ossification was like that of Ceratophrys d o r s a t a, and less 

 extensive than in Phrynocerus testudiniceps. 



The prominence of the superior labial border, and other points of physiog- 

 nomy, produced a peculiar grotesqueness in the expression of the animal, 

 which suggested the trivial name. The following diagnosis was offered : 



Supraorbital ridges very prominent, not crenate, presenting a posterior pro- 

 cess. Postorbital and supra-tympanic processes prominent, obtuse ; preorbital 

 straight, more acute. Canthus rostrales acute, converging so as to produce a 

 very acute angle ; their profile very declive, that of the muzzle more so, but 

 not perpendicular. Maxillary region oblique from a front view ; the labial 

 border forming a prominent rim, which is thickened and everted posteriorly. 

 Two occipital knobs on each side. Tympanum small, one-fourth or one-thii'd 

 the length of the palpebral border in diameter. Paratoid gland small, rounded, 

 lateral, studded with warts; the dorsal region is similarly studded, most 

 abundantly anteriorly. Sides, extremities and gular region covered with 

 smaller warts ; belly areolate. One large oval flat metacarpal tubercle ; a 

 large one at the base of the interior digit. Two metatarsal tubercles ; the 

 interior most elongate and acute, blackish brown. A short, thickened, internal 

 tarsal fold. Toes half-webbed, palm slightly rugose. 



Length from end of muzzle to tympanum 11 lines ; of antebrachium and 

 hand, 14-5 lines ; axilla to vent, 2 inches ; vent to end of fourth toe, 3 inches 

 1 line. 



The head is brown ; color elsewhere brownish yellow ; on the nape and sides 

 marbled with deep brown, somewhat oblique -longitudinally on the latter 

 region. Limbs cross-banded with brown. 



[August, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



Sept. 2d. 

 Mr. Cassin in the Cliair. 

 Ten members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 Additions to the Nomenclature of North American Lepidoptera, 

 No. 2. By Aug. R. Grote. 



Descriptions of Fossils from the Marshall and Huron Groups of 

 Michigan. By Alex. Winchell. 



Sept. dtJi. 

 Mr. Cassin in the Chair. 



Fifteen members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



Catalogues of the Reptiles obtained during the Exploratio"s of the 

 Paraguay, Vermejo and Uraguay Bivers, by Capt. T. J. Page, U. S. N., 

 and of those procured by Lieut. N. Michler, U. S. Top. Eng., Com- 

 mander of the Expedition conducting the Survey of the Atrato Biver. 

 By E. 1). Cope. 



Supplementary note to a Synopsis of N. American Colymbidas, &c. 

 By Elliott Coues. 



Sqif. IQtJi, 

 Mr. Cassin in the Chair. 

 Ten members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 Synopsis of the Carangoids of the Eastern Coast of North America. 

 .By Theo. Gill. 



Description of a new generic type of Mormyroids, &c. By Theo. Gill. 



Sept. 2Sd. 

 Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Seventeen members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



Monograph of the family Teredidse. Notes on American fresh water 

 Shells. &c. Description of a new Genus and Species of Pholadidaj. 

 By Geo. W. Try on, jr. 



Remarks on the species comprising the genus Pediocaetes. By D. 

 G. Elliott. 



On the synonymy and systematic position of the Genus Etclis. By 

 Theo. Gill. 



Sept. ZOth. 

 Dr. Bridges, Vice-President, in the Chair, 

 Fifteen members present. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published in the Proceedings : 

 1862.] 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Catalogues of the REPTILES obtained during the Explorations of the Parana, 

 Paraguay, Vermejo and Uraguay Rivers, by Capt. Thos. J. Page, TJ. S. If. ; 

 and of those procured by Lieut. N. Michler, U. S. Top. Eng,, Commander of 

 the Expedition conducting the Survey of the Atrato River. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



/. The Paraguay Collection. 



The expedition commanded by Captain Page, was sent out by the United 

 States Government, during the administration of President Fillmore, in the 

 year 1853. It ascended the Parana river, to the mouth of the Paraguay; 

 which stream it explored as far north as Cururaba, in Brazil, lat. 19° S. 

 Among the most important points at which observations and collections were 

 made, were La Paz, Corrientes, Abulquerque, and Fort Coimbra. in the Ar- 

 gentine Confederation, and Assuncion and Salvador, in Paraguay. On the 

 return voj'age, an ex2)edition ascended the Vermejo River, one hundred and 

 twenty miles. A land expedition across the Paraguayan territory was also 

 made, which reached the banlis of the Parana near the island of Iquibe. 



Capt. Page subsequently left Buenos Ayres for Santiago and Tucuman, by 

 an overland route ; from which point he descended the Salado, to Monte de 

 la Cueva de Lobo. Previous to this, he had ascended the Uraguay River to 

 the Salto Grande, lat. 31° 15'' S. In 1858, another and less extensive expe- 

 dition left the United States for the La Plata and confluent waters. On this 

 occasion, the vessel commanded by Capt. Page, was the Argentina, vice the 

 Water Witch, which had conveyed the first expeditions. 



The zoological collections made by the naturalists accompanying the expe- 

 ditions, are extensive and valuable. Partial investigations among them have 

 been made, and recorded in appendices to Capt. Page's narrative and statis- 

 tical work, " La Plata, the Argentine Confederation and Paraguay," New 

 Yorli, 1859. Attention is called to some remarks by Dr. Girard, of Washing- 

 ton, on the fish and reptiles, at p. 602, 



Fifty-nine species of reptiles were obtained ; with these and others, wc_ 

 know about seventy species, a sufficient number from which to deduce 

 most of the distinctive features of the reptile fauna of the Paraguay and Par- 

 ana basins : as yet we can obtain but little clue to the extent of its zoological 

 limits. 



Of the seventy species, eighteen (marked (Braz) in thecatalogue) ai-e iden- 

 tical with those of the regions drained by tlie tributaries of the Amazon, and 

 by the eastern Brazilian coast streams. But three are found in the Chilian dis- 

 trict. At least forty have not been discovered out of the region in question. Of 

 these, nineteen are represented by nearly allied species in the Brazilian dis- 

 trict ; five find their closest representatives west of the Andes. The follow- 

 ing genera, so far as is known, are peculiar: Phyllosira, Pbimophis ; Teius, 

 Scartiscus; Lysapsus, Pyxicephalus, Phryniscus, Scytopis. Heterodon does not 

 occur in any other section of the regio neotropica. We miss the more aequatorial 

 types Catostoma, Rhinostoma, Tantilla, Spilotes, Herpetodryas, Dryophis, 

 Dipsas, Olisthenes, Brachj^rhytum, etc. 



Of the species brought home by the expedition, twenty- five had not been 

 previously known to zoologists. Four of these represent types of genera new 

 to the system, viz. : one ophidian, one lacertiliau and two batrachian. 



The preservation of the specimens composing the collections, was under the 

 immediate care of ilr. Christopher Wood of Philadelphia. 



Testpdinata. 

 Hydraspis hilairii Gray. Dum. Bibr., Erp. Gen., ii. 429. (Braz.) 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 347 



Ophidia. 

 Caudisoua t e r r i fi c a Laur. Cope in Mitchell's Resear. on Venom of Rattle- 

 snake, p. 120. No. 5783. (Braz.) 

 Bothrops alter natus Dum. Bibr., Erp. Gen., vii. p. 1512. No. 5822. 



Bothrops d i p r u s Cope. 



Second superior labial as in B. alternatus, not forming the anterior 

 boundary of the fossette, and in contact with small scales below and behind 

 the nasals. Superior labials eight ; suture between third and fourth, a little 

 behind anterior margin of orbit. Scales of vertex strongly keeled ; lowest 

 row of temporals smooth. Superior margin of rostral one-third the length of 

 inferior ; superolateral margins very concave. Muzzle a little depressed in 

 profile ; canthus rostralis strongly pronounced, not acute. Scales in twenty- 

 five rows, strongly biporous. Caudal horn elongate. Gastrosteges 168, uros- 

 teges 50. Length of head and body 36 inches ; O' tail, 5 inches 6 lines. 

 Ground-color yellowish brown, with numerous deep brown black-bordered 

 triangular spots, sometimes alternating, sometimes confluent at their apices. 

 On the sides their bases appear as though cut off by a longitudinal baud of the 

 ground- color, and the middle portions of them obliterated ; a general cruciform 

 outline often results when the confluence of the apices is complete. A longi- 

 tudinal spot on each side of the nape and occiput, a round one on each 

 parietal region, and one on the muzzle ; all obscured in old specimens. A 

 black band fi-om orbit crossing upper parts of posterior superior labials. 

 "Beneath yellowish, punctulated with brown. Dark brown spots on the ends 

 of the gastrosteges. From the Vermejo River region. No. 5401. 



Elaps frontalis Dum. Bibr., 1. c. vii. p. 1223. 



Frontals pale bordered, or a pale band across postfrontals (var. b a li o- 

 coryphus.) (Braz.) 



Elaps altirostris Cope, Pr. A. N. S. Philada., 1859, p. 345. 



The native country of this species is now first ascertained. It is readily 

 distinguishable by its rather elevated front and elevated labial shield. The 

 gular region is almost entirely black. No. 5346. 



Elaps pyrrhocryptus Cope. 



Rings in threes — six triads on the body and one on the tail in the specimen 

 described ; the red interspaces are a little longer than the middle black ring ; 

 the scales which they involve are so broadly tipped with black as to obscure 

 (in one place completely) the red ground. Middle black ring twice as wide 

 as outer black ring ; the latter twice as wide as the inclosed yellow ring. Neck 

 to occipital plates covered by a red space. Head black, the frontals narrowly, 

 the labials broadly margined with yellow or red. Gular region light, inferior 

 labials margined with black. Rings complete on the belly. Head depressed ; 

 muzzle obtuse, short. Rostral plate broader than high ; postnasal smaller 

 than prenasal, well in contact with preocular. Lateral, occipital and frontal 

 borders of vertical equal. Total length. No. 5395. 



This species is allied toE. melanogenys and marcgravii. 



Cochliophagus inaequifasciatus Dum. Bibr., Erp. Gen., vii. p. 480. 



The genus Cochliophagus differs from Dipsas {Leptognatkiis, Gthr.) in the 

 absence of a larger vertebral series of scale >, and in the compression of the 

 head posteriorly. The maxillary bones exhibit a rudiment of the horizontal 

 wing, so developed in Dipsas. The native country of the only species has been 

 supposed to be Brazil, by Dumeril and Bibron. No. 5815. 



Oxyrhopus trigeminus Dum. Bibr., viii. p. 1013, No. 5818. (Braz.) 



Phimophis guerini Cope, Pr. A. N. S. Philada., 1860, p. 79, Dum. Bibr., 



vii. p. 991. 



1862.] 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Tliamnodyuastes nattereri Wagler, Dum. Bibr., vii. p. 1149. (Braz.) 



This species was taken swimming in the river, near Assuncion. Its aspect 

 is not very dipsadine ; perhaps it should be removed, with the Phrynonas 

 1 unula t us,* to the neighborhood of Hypsirhynchus and Tomodon. Boie 

 more nearly expressed its affinities in calling it a Tropidonotiis than others 

 have who denominate it Dipsas. 



Xenodon ?se varus Boie, Erp. Gen., vii. 756. Nos. 5798-9. (Braz.) 



Heterodon d'orbignyi Dum. Bibr., 1. c. vii. 772. No. 5S0S. 



Helicops leprieurii Dum. Bibr., 1. c. vii. 750. Giinther, Ann. M. N. H., 



Ib61, p. 427. No. 5400. (Braz.) 

 Dimades plica tills Gray, Dum. Bibr., 1. c. vii. 344. No. 5802. (Braz.) 



Opheomorphus m eremmii Fitz. 



Var. semiaureus Cope, of a yellowish brown, the scales and head 

 plates without black borders. Abdomen yellow, gastrosteges dark-bordered 

 posteriorly ; gular and labial regions bright yellow. No. 4665. 



Opheomorphus doliatus Cope, Synopsis Holocosus and Ameiva, &c. 15. 

 Liophis doliatus Reinhardt, Herpetologiske Meddelelser, p. 14. 



Scales in nineteen rows. Var. sublineatus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Philada., 18G0, 252. No. 4666. Var. csesius Cope. Light leaden brown, 

 the scales black bordered ; temi^oral regions black ; head plates black 

 bordered. Short irregular transverse brown lines on the dirty white abdo- 

 men. Superior labials white. Trace of a lateral black band on posterior 

 part of body and tail. Santa Fe. No. 5393. 



This serpent looks as though intermediate between the var. subline- 

 atus and O. m e r e m m i i of Brazil, and Liophis subfasciatus. Close 

 resemblance may be traced between the var. sublineatus and Lygophis 

 r u t i 1 u s. These species of the genus Liophis as formerly understood, are 

 in a very interesting condition — somewhat better defined than the forms of 

 Herpetodryas, and more as in Xenodon, Thamnophis and Oxyrhopus. Careful 

 observation of such species must be of the greatest value in the demonstration 

 of the more difficult problems of natiiral science. 



Liophis subfasciatus Cope, Synopsis Holcosus and Ameiva, kc, p. 17. 



No. 6310, 5809-4-3. 

 Lygophis r u t i 1 u s Cope, 1. c. p. 20. Buenos Ayres. No. 5397. 

 Lygophis flavifrenatus Cope, 1. c. p. 20. No. 5398. 

 Lygophis d i 1 e p i s Cope, 1. c. p. 21. No. 5861. 

 Lygophis line at us Fitz, Dum. Bibr., Erp. Gen., vii. p. 655. Nos. 5810, 



6088. (Braz.) 



Pseudophis s c h o 1 1 i i Fitz, Dum. Bibr., 1. c. vii. p. 1118. (Braz.) 



A large specimen of this species (No. 5801) measures sixty-seven English 

 inches. A second species of Pseudophis is the P. patagonieusi s — Cal- 

 lirhiniis of Girard. 

 Philodryas aestivus Gthr., Dum. Bibr., vii. p. 1111. No. 5812. (Braz.) 



Philodryas latirostris Cope, Synopsis of Holcosus and Ameiva, &c., p. 13. 

 The preocular plates do not always reach the vertical in this species. 

 Scale pores single Nos. 5364, 5811. 



* Tropidodipsos lumilata Cope, Pr. A. N. S. Philada., 1860, p. 517, exhibits a union of 

 the peculiariiies of tree and water snakes, and is the type of the genus Phrvnonax, Cope. 

 The body is rather sliort.much coniprcssed ; a few median rows of scales wciikly keeled. 

 Anal plate entire. Scales biporous. Head distinct, broad, muzzle rounded. Two nasals, 

 tme loreal, one preocular. Eye large, pupil round. Dentition isodont. Allied to Hyp- 

 sirhynchus. Differs frum Spiloies in the long slender tail and broad depressed muzzle. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



Phyllosira flavescens Cope. 



Char. gen. — Subfam. Ath<etullinEe. Dentition syncranterian. Tw^o nasals, 

 one loreal and preocular. Body cylindrical. Scales in subtransverse series, 

 with two larger median dorsal rows, which, alone are keeled. Postahdominal scutel- 

 him entire. Pupil round. 



Char, specif. — Scales in ten longitudinal series. Eight superior labials, eye 

 over fourth and fifth ; two postoculars. Two large, one small temporal. Late- 

 ral borders of vertical slightly concave, not touching preocular ; prefontals 

 as long as postfrontals ; rostral as high as broad. Front slightly convex. 

 Length of head 9 lines ; of body 17 inches 5 lines ; tail mutilated. Color yel- 

 lowish brown anteriorly, posteriorly brownish yellow. Below yellow. No. 5813. 



This genus is nearly allied to AhsetuUa. The species seems to bear some 

 resemblance to Schlegel's Dendrophis a u r a t u s. 



Thrasops marginatus Cope. 



Eight superior labials, eye over the fourth and fifth. Three large tempo- 

 rals. Preocular sometimes in contact with vertical. Two postoculars ; loreal 

 none ; postnasal no longer than prenasal ; its posterior border vertical, as long 

 as its frontal. Scales in fifteen longitudinal rows, all keeled but the inferior ; 

 tail scales smooth. Angulation of abdominal shields weak. Length of rictus 

 1 inch ; of head and body 33 inches 9 lines ; of tail 16 inches 9 lines. 



General color greenish straw color ; the scales with their margins and keels 

 brown. Median dorsal region bluish green ; head dark green, the plates 

 margined witli black ; labials pale, not margined. No. 4667. 

 . This species resembles the occidentalisin the scutellation of the head ; 

 that species differs in its uniform bright green color, and fewer keeled scales. 

 The ahaetulla exhibits two longitudinal blue bands, more numerous 

 superior labials, and a more elongate nasal shield. 



Pseudoe'aps pantherinus Fitz., Dum. Bibr., vii. p. ISl. No. 5796. 



(Braz.) 

 Erythrolamprus venustissimus Boie, Dum. Bibr., vii. p. 851. No. 



5862, (Braz.) 

 Phalotris tricolor Cope, Pr. A. N. S. Philada., 1S61, p. 524, Dum. Bibr., vii. 



p. 837. No. 5816. 



Epicrates c r a s s u s Cope. 



Scales in thirty-nine longitudinal rows. Head short, wedge shaped, muzzle 

 ra,ther narrow ; superior labials twelve, sixth and seventh entering orbit. 

 Head plates as in E. c e n c h r i a. General form thick and short. Tail less 

 than one- eighth of total length ; the latter 36 inches 6 lines ; length of head 1 

 inch 5 lines. 



General color leather brown ; three rows of darker spots on each side, the 

 inferior broken up, the superior bordered with whitish above on the thirteenth 

 row of scales. These borders uniting form a band on the anterior third of the 

 body, immediately above a br')wn band formed by the confluent spots. About 

 thirty-four distinct pale oval spots on each side the vertebral line, sometimes 

 confluent with those of the opposite side ; they form a longitudinal band on 

 the nape. A median and two temporal brawn bands on the head. Cadosa, 

 Parana River. (Sm. No. 5409.) 



The number of species of Epicrates withoxit subouular plates is perhaps a 

 matter of uncertainty. The specimens ofE. cenchria (as figured by Prince 

 Neuwied), which I have seen, have the seventh and eighth superior labials 

 entering the orbital rim. So has the E. maurus, according to Dr. Gray, 

 who states that it is further characterized by a very elongate ninth. There 

 is a common brown species, of which I have seen none but adult specimens, 

 procured in Trinidad, Venezuela, and Panama, in which the eye rests upon 

 the sixth and seventh superior labials ; occasional traces of lateral and dorsal 

 1862.] 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



spots may be observed on some of them. These agree in all points of sqnama- 

 tion with the specimens often seen, which exhibit pale dorsal and numerous 

 lateral spots and a lateral stripe. This is var. A of Ep. cenchria of Dr. 

 Gray. I have seen only young specimens of this, though the author just men- 

 tioned enumerates "an adult stuifed." Can it to be the young of the brown 

 species above mentioned ? Perhaps it is the Boa lateristrvja of Boie, but that 

 species does not appear to have been described. No donVjt there are other names 

 applicable to it. The E. crassus resembles it in point of labial plates and 

 coloration, but differs from it and the cenchria in having ten rows of scales 

 fewer. This is the most important peculiarity, it may be noted, which cha- 

 racterizes the Eunectes n o t a e u s of the same region. 



Eunectes notaeus Cope, Synopsis Holcosus and Ameiva, &c., p. 10. No. 

 4707. Taken in the Paraguay River about thirty miles south of Fort 

 Coimbra, Brazil, near lat. 20° S. 



Stenostoma naelanoterma Cope. 



Scales in fourteen rows. Tail five or six times the breadth of the head in 

 length ; anal plate large. Eye large ; postnasal elevated to its line of posi- 

 tion, widely separate from the comparatively broad superciliary. Rostral 

 narrow ; prenasal and frouto-nasal separate. Parietals and postparietals well 

 developed, narrow. General color pale reddish white, with fourteen longi- 

 tudinal chestnut brown bands, one on each series of scales. Head and tip 

 of tail black. 



I have compared this species with S. albifrons, from Trinidad, where 

 the nasal and superciliary are in contact. If d'Orbigny's figure is correct, 

 the S. albifrons from Buenos Ayres is another species, having a broad 

 rostral plate and separate postnasal and superciliary. 



The melanoterma was taken at Corrientes. No. 5406. 



Amphisb^enia. 

 Amphisb?ena c a m u r a Cope. 



Body thick, short ; tail short, obtuse, with sixteen rings. Preanal plates 

 ten, longer than broad ; preanal pores four. Muzzle abruptly contracted, 

 short, higher than broad ; swollen arched in profile. Rostral plate five-sided ; 

 naso-rostrals nearly transversely parallelogrammic ; frontonaso-rostrals nearly 

 as broad as long ; occipitals rounded anteriorly and posteriorly. Labials four, 

 three ; high. Eye in the superior angle of the ocular, which is acute ante- 

 riorly, and bounded behind by three segments of the first annulus. Mental 

 plate nearly as broad as long. Length of head and body 15 inches ; of tail, 

 2 inches 6 lines. Head and upper parts of body and tail brown ; below, and 

 a broad collar, yellow. No. 5800. 



This species is most nearly related to A. angus tif rons, from Buenos 

 Ayres. The head and plates are relatively much shorter and more obtuse : 

 there is one more labial ; the yellow collar is not seen in the latter. 



Lacektilia. 



Ophiodes s t r i a t n s Wagl., Dum. Bibr., v. 7S9. 



Ophiodes exhibits the peculiar structure of the scales and tongue charac- 

 teristic of the Diploglossiuse, as stated to exist in Panolopus, &c., by the 

 author in a previous memoii\* It evidently succeeds the latter genus in the 

 system. No. 5819. (Braz.) 



Emoea frenataCope, Pr. A. N. S. Philada., 1S62, p. 187. 



Mabuia dorsivittata Cope. 

 A species to be contrasted with the surinamensis in the author's table 



* Pr. A. N. S. Philada., 1862, p. 188. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



of species of Mabuia.* The size is much less. Eight superior labials, eve over 

 sixth ; seven inferior. Supranasals separating rostral from internasal ; the 

 latter is nearly twice as broad as long, and is extensively in contact with the 

 frontal. Frontonasals small, transverse. Frontal pentagonal cuneiform ; its 

 longest side bounded by first supraorbital only ; of the latter there are three. 

 Fronto parietals large, interparietals broad ; postoccipitals present. Ear with- 

 out lobes ; thirty longitudinal rows of scales ; six preanal scales. A few cal- 

 caneal tubercles. From muzzle to ear-orifice 5 lines ; from ear to vent 1 inch 

 6 lines. Vent to end of tail 3 inches 9 lines. 



Color. — Below greenish white. Sides (six and a half rows of scales wide) 

 brownish black, traversed by two longitudinal white lines, one from the 

 muzzle and one from the lip, two and two half rows of scales apart. Dorsal 

 region brown for a width of only two and two half rows of scales, divided by 

 a narrow median blackish line from nape to rump. Head brown above. Tail 

 brown, with the lateral bands continued. (No. 5405.) 



Teius V i r i d i s Merr., Dum. Bibr., Erp. Gen., v. 143. Nos. 4399-5856. 



Ameiva surinamensis Gray, Cope, Synopsis Holcosus and Ameiva, &c., 

 p. 8. (Braz.) 



Tupinambis teguexin ?Dum. Bibr., x. p. 85. No. 4708, (Braz.) 



Ortholsemus f i t z r o y i Girard, U. S. Expl. Exped., p. 373. No. 5853. 



Taraguira torquata Gray, Dum. Bibr., iv. p. 344. No. 5897. (Braz.) 



Microlophus spinulosus Cope. 



This species diflers from the peruvianus in possessing three rows of 

 scales anterior to that which is homologous with the internasal, instead of 

 two ; the anterior two are entirely transverse, and composed of four scales 

 each; the posterior of two large ones. Two parietals, narrower than inter- 

 parietal. Supraorbitals short, separated by two rows of scales from the super- 

 ciliary series. Supraorbital margin thickened posteriorly. Two rows above 

 the labials, and two series of loreals. Temporals spinulose. Infralabials lon- 

 gitudinal. A group of tubercles on anterior margin of ear ; other groups on 

 the neck folds. Scales of sides as large as the abdominal. Inguinal and axil- 

 lary scale.*, and those of the extremities, especially of the posterior face of the 

 femur, with their keels prolonged into recurved sx>ines. Crest scales twice as 

 high as long, thickened on the nape. Palatine teeth present. Length from 

 muzzle to neck fold 1 inch 6 lines ; neck fold to vent 4 inches 3 lines ; vent to 

 end of tail 6 inches 6 lines ; of anterior extremity 2 inches ; posterior extre- 

 mity 2 inches 10 lines. General color bright olivaceous, with indistinct brown 

 variations ; extremities narrowly brown barred. (No. 5956.) 



Scartiscus caducus Cope, Pr. A. N. S. Philada., 1862, p. 182. No. 5852. 

 Polychrus anomalus Wiegm., Dum. Bibr., iv. 69. 



Batkachia. 

 Lysapsns lim ellum Cope, Pr. A. N. S. Philada., 1862, p. 157. From the 

 Curumba River. 

 The genus Lysapsus is very nearly allied to Pseudis, and can scarcely be 

 placed in another fami'y. Renewed examination shows, as before, that the 

 sacral diapopbyses are dilated, and the digital expansions as large as those of 

 Acris, and more developed than in Pseudacris. A difficulty in distinguishing 

 between Oxydactyl and Platydactyl groups of Opisthogloss Anura has been 

 experienced by some zoologists, and to the author it seems that such a pri- 

 mary division cannot be maintained. It is not impossible that certain genera 



• Pr. A. N. S Philada, 1862. M. (Riopa) al b i pun c lata Gray, Am. M. N. H. xvii. 

 430. was omitted from the list. 



1862.] 




352 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



may embrace species with dilated and undilated digits, e. g. Lithodytes, Fitz. 

 In Prof. Peters' genus Plectromantis those of the hinder extremity only, are 

 famished with discs. The distinguished herpetologist, Baird, has developed* 

 an important peculiarity of most Platydactylaor Hylseformia,! viz: the syndes- 

 mosis of the external pair of metatarsal bones (called by me 1. c. basal phalan- 

 ges.) This, however, exists in the Cystignathidse among Oxydactyla. This 

 author also employs the areolation of the abdominal integument, but Dumeril 

 has mentioned the existence of exceptions to this rule ; such are species of 

 Hylodes, Elosia and Hylarana ; so were Lysapsus, if its digital expansions be 

 regarded of primary value. Neglecting the latter point, the genus just men- 

 tioned would fall into the Discoglossidie of Giinther. The propriety of such a 

 separation from Pseudis is very questionable, for the value of difference in 

 the form of the sacral diapophyses is reduced to its minimum in view of the 

 existence of a P. mantidactyla, from Buenos Ayres, which I describe as 

 follows. It will be seen that it bears much resemblance to the L. limellum: 

 General form that of P. p a r a d o x a. Two vocal vesicles. Tympanum 

 nearly as large as eye. Skin of back smooth, pustulous, most so posteriorly. 

 Skin of tibia and foot minutely roughened ; several rows of acute rugosities on 

 the former. One acute cuneiform tubercle. Skin beneath entirely smooth. 

 Tips of toes very slightly dilated, brown. Above uniform light brown. A 

 yellowish band from axilla to femur ; another above it on the lumbar region. 

 Femora cross-banded with brown aboveand with three longitudinal brown bands 

 on their posterior face. A light band on the posterior face of the brachium. 

 The sacral diapophyses are cylindrical. Length of head and body 1 inch 6 

 lines ; tarsus to end of longest toe 1 inch 2 lines ; tibia and femur 1 inch 5 

 lines. Mus. Acad., Philada, 



Pyxicephalus ? n. sp. 



Vomerine teeth in two elevated fasciculi opposite the posterior border of 

 the internal nares. Ostia pharyngea smaller than nares. Tongue oval, 

 scarcely emarginate. Muzzle elevated, higher than the length of the short, 

 approximated canthus rostrales. Palpebrae prominent, thickened, covered 

 with transverse glands, broader than the interorbital space. Tympanum con- 

 cealed. Extremities short ; numerous antebrachial palmar and subdigital 

 tubercles. Cuneiform process strongly developed. Toes half-webbed. Skin 

 of inferior surfaces glandular, areolated. Sides and superior surfaces coarsely 

 glandular ; a series of four or five larger glands extends from each orbit, and 

 there are two parallel rows on the occipital region. Extremities glandular. Ex- 

 panse of rami maudibuli 10 lines. Muzzle to end of coccyx 2 inches 2 lines. 

 Anterior extremity 1 inch 2 lines. Posterior 1 inch 10 lines. Tarsus 4*5 lines. 



Ground-color pale brown or whitish, with a series of large dark brown pale 

 bordered spots on the median dorsal region, and smaller spots on the sides. 

 The former interrupt a pale vertebral vitta. Three spots on each maxillary 

 region, and one between the orbits. Extremities brown spotted. Ko. 5825. 



If the short descriptions of the P. americanus (hitherto the only spe- 

 cies) are reliable, this animal differs in the position of the vomerine teeth and 

 in coloration. 



Pleurodema bibronii Tschudi, Dum. Bibr., viii. 410. 



Plearodema biligonigera Cope. 



Liuperiis hiUgonigerns Cope, Pr. A. N. S. Philada., 1S60, p. 517. 



This species was described from a specimen in which the vomerine teeth and 



lumbar gland were obliterated. It differs from the bibronii, and from 



the species or varieties enumerated by Mr. Bell, in the absence of dermal 



glandules. As compared with our specimen of bibronii, the head is 



* Pr. A. N. S. Philada., 1854, p. 59. 



t Exceptions are seen in Hylarana, Potypedales and Rhacophorus. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



narrower and shorter, and the gape of the mouth less ; the aspect is more 

 that of Engystoma. The expedition specimen has the lumbar gland black. 

 It is probably one of Giinther's varieties of bibronii. No. 5840. 



Cjstignathus f u s c u s Gthr. Var. No. 5842. (Braz.) 



Cystignathus podicipinus Cope, Pr. A. N. S. Philada., 1862, p. 156. 



Phryniscus nigricans Wiegm., Dum. Bibr., viii. 723. No. 5834, et var. 

 with very large (?) white spots on the sides, belly, and labial regions. No. 

 5b33. 



Phrynoidis agua Cope, Daud., Dum. Bibr., viii. 703. (Braz.) 



Bufo diptychus Cope. 



Cranium without longitudinal ridges. Canthus rostralis concave rounded ; 

 muzzle elevated, not protruding. Orbit as wide as length of muzzle anterior 

 to it. Tympanum small, scarcely perceptible. Tongue elongate, subcylindrical. 

 Internal diiger slightly longer than second, shorter than third ; toes one-third 

 palmate, third longer than fifth. A tarsal cutaneous fold continuous with the 

 inner metatarsal tubercle ; outer tubercle subconical. Paratoids beginning 

 behind upper margin of tympanum, divergent, trilateral, extending posterior 

 to the axilla, and continuous with a lateral dermal fold. Skin above smooth, 

 with a few scattered tubercles. Femora, sides and abdomen rugulose; the 

 first partly bound by the integument of the sides. The extended limbs reach, 

 the anterior to the femur, the posterior to the end of the muzzle. Muzzle to 

 vent one inch. Above light brown, with a whitish vertebral line ; there are 

 four deep brown spots on each side of this, and a broad chevron-shaped band 

 of the same from border to border of the upper eyelids. A brown band on 

 canthus rostralis, and two from orbit to lip. One from orbit to shoulder on 

 outer edge of paratoid, continuous with a blackish shade beneatli the lateral 

 fold. Abdomen brownish white, with a median series of blackish variations 

 from sternum to abdomen. No. 5S41. 



This species bears some resemblance to Phrynoidis variabilis of Dr. Gun- 

 ther, a species furnished with cranial ridges and a distinct tympanum. It differs 

 from B. poeppigii Tsch., as described by Girard, in the form of the muzzle, 

 and condition of skin, and coloration. The paratoids are larj,er than in B. 

 t h a u 1 Lesson (fide Girard) and B. c h i 1 e n s i s ; the skin is much smoother, 

 and the coloration different. InB. pantherinus (maculatus Hallow., Pr. 

 A. N. S., 1854, p. 101) and guineensis, the paratoids are elongate oval. 



Hypsiboas raniceps Cope. 



Vomerine tetth in two oblique curves, whose inner limb is very short, — the 

 structure prevailing in Hypsiboas. External digits one-third webbed. Only 

 two phalanges of the fourth toe free. Appressed femur extending five-sixths 

 the distance to the axilla ; no calcaneal appendage. Fingers reaching femur. 

 Head longer than broad, subacuminate ; loreal region oblique, not grooved ; 

 canthus rostralis slightly curved, rounded. Tympanum more than half the 

 size of the eye. Tongue oval, entire. Skin everywhere smooth, except upon 

 the usual regions — abdominal, thoracic, and inferior femoral. A subgular 

 vocal sac, witli very large oval openings. Expanse of rami of mandible 9 

 lines ; muzzle to arms 2 inches 9 lines ; anterior extremity 1 inch G lines ; 

 posterior extremity 4 inches 5 lines. Ashy, reddish, or dark brown above, 

 with darker cross-bands or broken marblings, which are most distinct poste- 

 riorly. A dark brown band from end of muzzle through eye to posterior 

 margin of tympanum. Brachium, whole length of sides, and all the surfaces 

 of the posterior extremity, except postero-internal of femur and external of 

 tarsus, vertically or transversely brown banded. A whitish band on outer 

 face of the antebrachium, and of tarsus and foot. Subanal region paleish. 

 Abdomen immaculate ; thorax and gular region shaded and spotted with 



1862.] 24 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



brown ; mandibular border whitish, maxillary border brown ; one specimen 

 with a brown vertebral line. 



This species resembles the H. fasciatus of Giinther in some respects, bnt 

 is more allied to H. b o a n s. In the latter three phalanges of the fourth digit 

 are free ; the canthus rostralis is acute, and there are various differences in 

 coloration. The raniceps was obtained on the Rio Vermejo. Nos. 5408- 

 5036. 



Hyla acuminata Cope 



Head longer than wide, muzzle rather pointed, depressed, the canthus 

 rostralis almost obsolete. Nostrils not pierced in a swelling. Eyes promi- 

 nent, not large, twice as large as tympanic disc. Skin of upper surfaces 

 warty or nearly smooth ; gular region areolated. Heel reaching anterior 

 border of orbit ; two phalanges of fourth toe free. Fingers entirely free, 

 vomerine teeth in two straight transverse series, opposite the posterior margin 

 of internal nares. Tongue short elliptic, slightly emarginate. Muzzle to pos- 

 terior border of tympanum 7 lines, do. to anus 1 in. 9 lin., anterior extremity 

 10 lin., posterior do. 2 in. 5 lin. No. 5843. A subgular vocal vesicle. 



General color brownish gray, beneath uniform, or with a few blackish ver- 

 miculations ; above with a blackish triangular spot between the eyes, and 

 shades and streaks on the sacral and scapular regions. Hinder extremity 

 crossbanded with blackish, most distinctly on femur ; the anterior and pos- 

 terior surfaces of the latter marbled with blackish. 



This species resembles Cystignathus podicipinus in form, and Hyla 

 versicolor in coloration. 



Hyla nasica Cope 



Head small, as long as broad, narrow anteriorly, muzzle depressed, promi- 

 nent, faint. Eye rather small, twice the extent of the tympanum. Tongue 

 elliptic, scarcely emarginate, vomerine teeth in two transverse contiguous 

 short rows between the internal nares. Fingers free or nearly ?o. Skin 

 above slightly tuberculous. Gular region faintly areolated, a vocal sac. 

 Length of head and body 1 in. 5 1. Breadth of gular region 4*5 lines. From 

 anus to end of fourth toe 1 in. 9. lin. 



Beneath pale, uniform. Above dark rufous brown with some darker longi- 

 tudinal markings on the back. A dark band from miizzle through tympanum 

 to side. Femur and posterior lateral region varied with dark brown. No. 

 5835. 



This animal resembles the v a u t e r i i , but the head is smaller, nar- 

 rower and more acuminate ; the tongue is more elongate and the vomerine 

 teeth are more anterior. 



Hyla V au t erii Bibr. Giinther, Catal. Brit. Mus., 106. No. 5407. (Braz. 1 



Scytopis h e b e s Cope. 



Char. gen. — Maxillary and vomerine teeth. Tongue slightly free posteriorly. 

 Ear perfectly developed, tympanum not concealed. Diapophysis of sacrum 

 dilated. Toes webbed. Large paratoids, which are confluent, covering the 

 anterior part of the back and top of head to muzzle- 



This genus, it will be seen, enters the "family " Pelodryadidje of Dr. Gun- 

 ther, which has been heretofore represented by but one genus, established for 

 an Australian species. 



Cliar. spec. — Ostia pharyngea and internal nares large, the vomerine teeth 

 in two straight transverse series behind the posterior border of tlie latter. 

 Tongue broader than long, scarcely emarginate. Tympanum horizontally 

 elliptic, overhung by the paratoid ; half as large as eye. Eyelid not promi- 

 nent, encroached upon by the paratoid. Skin above with a few depressed 

 protuberances ; head and body beneath everywhere coarsely areolated ; the 

 skin thick and coriaceous. Head broader than long, loral region concaT«>. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35-5 



cantlius rostralis obtuse. Palettes of the fingers nearly as large as tympa- 

 num ; digits slightly webbed ; two phalanges of fourth toe free. Heel 

 reaches to orbit when the leg is extended. No vocal pouch in the specimen 

 (5837) examined. From angle to angle of mouth beneath, 1 in. 3 lin. ; from 

 symphysis to postgular fold 6 1. ; muzzle to vent 3 in. 3 lin. ; posterior 

 extremity 5 in. 6 1. ; anterior do. 1 in. 7 lin. 



Above leathery brown, with deep brown shades on the back, and cross-bands 

 on the limbs. Sides and posterior faces of femora reticulated with the same, 

 enclosing on the former, yellowish areas. Beneath yellowish brown. 



Phyllomedusa a z u r e a Cope. 



Muzzle short, elevated, truncate ; canthus rostralis rounded, a little concave. 

 External nares entirely lateral. Supra-palpebral region not prominent, the 

 visual fissure rather restricted. Tympanic disc near the posterior canthus of 

 the latter, equalling less than half its extent. Skin of the superior regions 

 smooth ; a narrow median band of areolations on the inferior surface of the 

 femur. Paratoids very slightly developed. Anterior limbs extended pos- 

 teriorly, reaching hinder side of femur. Heel about reaching tympanic disc. 

 Internal nares anterior, smaller than the eustachian orifices. An acute me- 

 dian emargination in the premaxillary region. Two external of the anterior 

 digits, longest, nearly equal, their basal phalanges, united by the integument ; 

 thumb shortest, almost opposable. Soles slightly tuberculous. Length of 

 head and body one inch six lines ; from end of muzzle to tympanum four lines; 

 length of antebrachium 4-5 lines ; of tibia 7 lines ; of tarsus 5'5 lines ; meta- 

 tarsus and longest digit 5 lines. 



Color of the upper surfaces of the body and extremities, except that of the 

 brachium, milky purplish blue. Beneath white or yellowish. The edges of the 

 jaws are margined with the same, which margins form a narrow, lateral band, 

 which extends to the middle of the side. Posterior lateral region, with the 

 white surfaces of the extremities, with vertical blackish-brown bands. The 

 blue is reduced to a narrow band on the femur ; it is margined with white on 

 the anterior extremity and the tarsus. No. 5832. 



I cannot find a trace of vomerine teeth in the two specimens at my disposal. 

 Their absence may be accidental ; perhaps it is a specific character— its import- 

 ance is not greater than this. 



This species difi"ers from P. hypochondrialis of Surinam {tlyla hyp. 

 Daud, ) in its smaller and relatively less depressed head, shorter hinder extre- 

 mities, and absence of dark spots upon the anterior lateral region. 



The hypochondrialis is believed by Prof. Sehlegel, (Abbild. Amph., 

 Dec. i., p. 24,) to be the young of b i c o 1 o r. The same statement is made by 

 Dr. Tschudi, (Classif. der Batrachier, p. 27,) and by Dumcril and Bibron. 

 Drs. Burmeister and GUnther apparently acquiesce in this opinion. There are 

 no reasons to doubt the correctness of this view, other than such as a consider- 

 ation of the following differences may furnish. The hypochondrialis 

 is apparently destitute of the lateral, extremital, and gular yellow spots of the 

 b i c 1 r ; on the contrary, the color of the back has a straight outline, and is 

 distinctly defined upon the sides. The superior labial yellow border is not 

 seen in the b i c o 1 o r, nor is the bright color of the upper surfaces wanting 

 upon the humerus, as inazureus and hypochondrialis. 



II. The Daricn Collection. 



The objects and direction of the expedition to which we are indebted for the 

 collection below catalogued, have been explained briefly by Mr. John Cassin, 

 the well-known ornithologist, in these Proceedings.* Ho has also stated the 

 positions of the localities at which portions of the collection were made. 

 Thirty-two species of reptiles were obtained, of which thirteen were new to 



• 18C0, p. 132. 



1862.] 




356 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



science. A brief notice of them has been given by Arthur Schott, Esq., thes 

 exploring naturalist and geologist, at p. 255 of Lieut. Michler's Report to the 

 United States Government. 



Crocodilia. 

 Jacare sclerops Dum. Bibr. Turbo. No. 5253, 

 Crocodilus sp. young. Turbo. 4311. Vide Mr. Schott's Report, 1. c. 



Ophidia. 

 Elaps corallinus Wied., Dum. Bibr,, vii. 1207. No. 3005. 



Elaps melanogenys Cope, Pr. Ac. Nat. Science Phil. , 1860, p. 72. 



Var. with ten sets of rings, and the postocular cross-band interrupted by 

 the black ground on the temporal region. It resembles the dissoleucus* 

 slightly, but wants the acute, prominent muzzle, and small rostral plate of that 

 species. The labials are not so elevated as in that species, and lemnisca- 

 t u s and other allies, the fourth (subtending the orbit) being as long as high. 

 The prefrontals are not so small, relatively, as in dissoleucus, but are 

 more as in lemniscatus, where they are smaller than in p y r r h o c r y p- 

 t u s . Carthagena. 



Himantodes cenchoa Dum. Bibr., vii. 1065. Nercua. No. 4300. 

 Sibon annulatum Fitz., Dum. Bibr., vii. 1141. No. 4301, 4353. 

 Oxybelis acuminatus Cope, Dum. Bibr., vii. 819, Carthagena. No. 4306. 

 Herpetodryas carinatus Boie, Dum. Bibr., vii. 207, 



Pliocercus euryzonus Cope, Pr. Ac. N. Sc. Phila., 1862, p. 72. No. 4303. 

 Liophis epinephelus Cope, 1. c, p. 78. No. 4305. 



Lacertilia. 

 Sphaerodactylus casicolus Cope, Pr. A. N. S. Phila., 1861, p. 499. 

 Iguana tuberculata Laur. , D. and B., iv. 203. No. 4314. 

 Iguana rhinolopha Wiegm., D. and B., 1. c, 207. Truando. 

 Basiliscns americanus Laur,, D, and B., 1. c, 181 (^ $. No. 4112, 4322 

 Anolis ??reticulatus Gray, Cat. Brit. Mus., 204. Truando. 4321, cf jr.. 



Turbo. 4313 c?. 

 Anolis r a d u 1 i n u s Cope, Pr. A. N. S. Phil., 1862, p. 180. Truando. 4327-8. 

 Anolis poecilopus Cope, 1. c, 179. Truando. 4320-31. 

 Anolis vitti g erus Cope, 1. c, 179. Truando, 4332. 

 Anolis pentaprion Cope, 1. c, 178, Truando. 

 Cnemidophorus lemnis c at u s Dum. Bibr.., a, 128, Carthagena, 4336, 



Cnemidophorus. Carthagena. Specimens like m u r in u s Dum. Bibr., v, 

 126, with plates on the superior and anterior faces of the humerus, and an 

 olive band internally pale bordered on each side of the back, and otherwise 

 similar. What isC. festivus Licht. et von Martins ? 



Tupinambis nigropunctatus Spix, Dum. Bibr., r. 20. Turbo, 4319, 



Brachypus pallidiceps. 



Digits 4 — 3 ; scales in thirty-four transverse series from axilla to groin, and 

 twenty-three longitudinal ; those of the abdomen broader, rectangular, those 

 of the upper regions hexagonal. Internasal plate longer than broad, hexago- 



* Possibly this name conveys error, the supposed white spots, having, perhaps, been 

 yellow. 'l"he species was described from an alcoholic specimen recently taken, in which 

 the red was brilliant; the supposed white haddiot then the appearance of faded yellow. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



nal, its nasal suture longest, the others shorter in the following order, frontal, 

 rostral, fronto-nasal. Nostril between first upper labial and nasal : one frenal, 

 one subocular resting on the third, fourth and fifth superior labials ; of these, 

 the sixth and last is longest. Five temporals, two supraorbitals. Frontal 

 much longer than broad, eight-sided, as follows: — longest, occipital, then su- 

 praorbital, internasal, frontonasal, interoccipital. Five inferior labials, a 

 small symphyseal, a mental longer than broad ; three infralabials on each 

 side, the anterior two very large, the first of each series extensively in con- 

 tact ; a cross row of eight gular plates, the median pair largest. One pair of 

 sternal shields. Four preanals, the anterior subtriangular, the posterior nar- 

 row. Length of head, 3'5 lines ; of body and neck, 2 inches 3 lines ; of tail, 

 ?3 inches 6 lines ; total ?6 inches. 



General color plumbeous, the scales margined with black ; head cinereous. 

 A light brown band extends along each side of the back, separated from its 

 fellow by four rows of scales. Truando river region. (4324. ) 



This species seems to indicate a necessity for dispensing with Tschudi's 

 name Microdactylus for the Chalcides schlegeliiof Dum, Bibr. unless the 

 latter animal can be generically distinguished by some other peculiarity than 

 the number of its digits. While it possesses three digits on all the feet, and 

 the B. c u V i e r i four, (usually) the pallidiceps has four anterior and 

 three posterior. Chalcis heteropus of Lichtenstein and Von Martius, 

 judging from the name, must exhibit a similar peculiarity. I have not been 

 able to see their description. 



Batrachia. 

 Cystignathus poeciloehilus Cope, Pr. Ac. N. Sci. Phila., 1862, p. 156. 



No. 4347. 

 Craugastor hallowellii Cope, I.e., p. 153. 



Craugastor pulchrigulus Cope. 



Distal end of tibia reaching beyond muzzle ; feet one-fourth webbed. Head 

 elongate, muzzle subtruucate. Teeth in straight lines behind the internal 

 nares ; tongue broad oval, entire. Dark-brown, white spots on hinder face of 

 femur. Sides and gular region shaded with dark-brown ; a bright yellow band 

 beginning on the intermaxillary region, extends to the thorax. A light spot 

 under the eye. Length of head and body 10 lines. Truando, 4354. 



? Otilophus margaritifer, Cuv. young, 4337 — 8, '40 — 1. Truando. 

 Chilophryne c o n i f e r a Cope, Pr. A. N. S. Phila., 1862, p. 156. Turbo. 

 Phrynoidis intermedins Cope. Bufo iniermedius Gthr., Catal. Brit. Mus., 



p. 140, Carthagena. No. 4350. 

 Bufo s i m u s Schmidt, Denkschr, Acad. Wiss. Wien, 1858, p. 254. No. 4339. 

 Truando. 

 In our specimen the toes are very slightly webbed, and not at all margined ; 

 there is a short acute tubercle on the inner face of the tarsus. The tym- 

 panum is visible, though indistinct. The warts on the back, nape, and head, 

 are very numerous, especially on the latter two regions, where some are linear. 

 There is a short reddish median line on the coccyx. The belly is pied, black- 

 ish and ? white; gular region black, with a white median vitta. A large vocal sac. 



Rhaebo haematiticus Cope. 

 ■ Bufo hcEiaatiticus Cope, 1. c, 157. 



The Dumerilian genus Bufo has been subdivided by Dr. Fitzinger, of Vienna, 

 into several groups, to which he has given names. That that genus is a union 

 of several I do not doubt, but that they are as numerous as Dr. Fitziuger indi- 

 cates, I cannot perceive. The following table exhibits the relative characters 

 of those that seem to be recognizable. Calophrynus is introduced on the 

 authority of Dr. Gunther : — 



1862.] 




358 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Paratoids distinct, dorso-lateral. 



No dermo-ossification upon the cranium. 

 Cranium with longitudinal ridges. 



A parietal branch ridge C hilophry n e. 



No parietal branch ridge. 



Orbito- tympanic ridge enormously developed... Otilophus. 



Orbito-tympanic moderate, or none Phrynoidis. 



Cranium without ridges. 



Canthus rostralis and paratoids rounded ; form 



stout Bufo. 



Canthus rostralis and paratoids sharp angled ; 



form slender ; toes nearly free Rhaebo. 



Cranium covered with a dermo-ossification Peltaphryne. 



Paratoids wanting, or scarcely visible Schismaderma. 



Paratoids confluent, covering the back Calophrynus. 



These genera contain the following species 



Bufd insidior Gird. 

 Vr. S. Amer. 

 Sandwich Is. 

 Gel e lie 8 

 Malaysia. 

 E. N. Amer. 

 Central N. Amer. 

 E. N. Amer. 

 Mexico. 

 N. W. S. Amer. 



Chilophryne Fitzivger. 



d'orbignyi Fitz. ex D. & B. 



dialopha Co'pe 



celcbensia ex Gthr. 



biporcata ex Gravenh. 



americana ex Le Conte 



cognata ex Say 



lentiginosa ex Sha'w 



nebulifera ex Gird. 



conifera Cojn 



Teragueusis ex Schmidt 



oeellata ex Gthr. 



lineomaculata ex Gay 

 Otilophiig Cufirr 



margaritifer Ouvier 



? pleuroptorns ex Schmidt 

 Phrynoidis Fitz. Pseudohvfo 

 Tsch. (N'omen bybriilum) 

 Aectes Blkr. Docidophryne 

 Fitz. 



asper Fit:. exQrav. 



iBOs ex Lesson 



melancstictus ex Schn. 



agua ex Baud. 



molitur ex Tsch. 



ornatus ex Spix 



granulusuB ex Spix. 



gutturosus ex Latr. 



intermedins ex Gthr. 



alvarius ex Gird. 



lugubrosus ex Gird. 

 Bufo Laure.nti. Phrynf. Ade- 

 normis Cope, (fomded on a 

 B. kelaartii, with the prox- 

 imal phalanges contracteil, 

 leaTing terminal dilata- 

 tions.) 



simus Schmidt/ ,11 N. W. S. Amer. 



anonialus Gthr. Mexico. 



VT. S. Amer. 



N. S. Amer. 

 N. W. S. Amer. 



Java. 



Bengal. 



S. and E. Asia. 



E. S. Amer. 



W. S. Amer. 



E. S. Amer. 



N. W. S. Amer. 

 Cent. N. Amer. 

 W. S. Amer. 



Mexico. 



TT. S. Amer. 



Central Amer. 



Java. 



Utah. 



Mexico 



VT. N. Amer. 



trifoliiim Tsch. 



politus Cope 



rruentatus Tsch. 



lamentor Girard. 



aebilis. CHrard. 



bore as B. <£. G. 



columbiensis B. <£ G- 



halophilus B. rf G. 



tbaul Less. 



chilensis Tsch. 



diptychus Cope 



rnbropunctatus Gay 



poeppigii Tsch. 



speciosus Gird 



ptinctatuE B. d. G. 



tnbero8US Gthr. 



guineensis Gthr. 



angusticeps Smith 



gariepensis Smith 



pantherinus Bote 



calamita Laur. 



viridis Lour. 



vulparis Laur. 



keliiartii Gthr. 

 Rhaebo C<jpe. Phrynomorphus 

 Fitz. (Nom. praeocc.) 



hsem atiticus Co;jf N. W. S. Amer. 



gracilis ex Gird. E. S. Amer. 



leschenaultii Cope, ex I), it B. N. E. S. Amer. 



?cceruleostictus ex Gthr. >". W. S. Amer, 

 Peltaphryne F^tz. 



peltacephala Fitt. Cuba. 



empusa Cbpt " 



Schismaderma Smith 



carens Smith S. Africa. 



Calophrynns l^h. 



pleurostigma Tsch. Borneo. 



W. S. Amer. 

 S. Amer. 

 E. S. Araer. 

 W. S. Amer. 

 W. S. Amer. 

 Mexico. 



Centr. N. Amer. 

 W. Africa. 



S. Africa. 



Africa. 

 S. Europe. 



Europe, E. Asia. 

 Ceylon. 



Bufones gymnauchen Bleeker, griseus and melanogaster 

 Hallow.,* erythrouotus and q n er c i c u s Holb., B. woodhousei Gird., 

 I have not been able to refer to any of the preceding genera. 



Hyla p h a e t a Cope. 



Head broad, depressed, canthus rostralis rounded concave ; eye large, 

 prominent, tympanum more than half its extent. Tongue round, entire ; 

 vomerine series nearly tranverse, between the large internal nares ; ostia 

 pharyngea large. A vocal sac. Skin of upper surfaces entirely smooth ; a 



* Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci., 18G0, pp 48G, 506. 



[Sept 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPUIA. 359 



strong fold from orbit over tympanum. Three outer fingers slightly webbed ; 

 nearly three phalanges of the fourth toe free, the web, howevir, margining 

 its outer side. Heel of the extended hind limb reaching beyond the muzzle. 

 Breadth of gular region from angle to angle of mandible, 9 lines ; length of 

 head and body 1 in. 10 lines ; of anterior extremity 1 in. ; of posterior 4 

 in. Color above grayish-brown, shaded with a pale plumbeous tint, like the 

 bloom of some fruit. Abdomen, upper jaw, postorbital region, and the bor- 

 ders of the upper eyelid, tarsus and antebrachium, and of a brown spot near 

 the vent, white. A dark brown line on the canthus rostralis, and band be- 

 tween the eyes ; a longitudinal band or series of spots on the back, which 

 bifurcates anteriorly ; a spot on the coccyx. A dark brown band from angle 

 of eye to scapular region, involving the whole of the tympanum. F^mur with 

 narrow cross-baniis ; posterior face reticulate or unicolor. Tibije more broadly 

 cross-banded. Sides with brownish vermiculations. Gular region brown 

 shaded.* From Turbo. No. 4347. 



Additions to the Nomsnclature of North Amarican LEPIDOPTERA. No- 2. 

 BY AUG. R. GROTE. 



On pages 59, 60, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci.. 1862, I described three species of 

 Heterocera. under the genus Plat\-pterix, Lasp., adopting the classification of 

 Heydenreich, in his Cat. Method. Lepidop. Europ. 



I have since recognized my P. formula to be identical with Drepana rosea, 

 Walker, C. B. M. viii. and also with Cilix Americana, H. S. Lepidop. Exot. 

 p. 60, fig. 470. 



This species seems, however, properly classified under neither of the above 

 genera, and for the reasons following. The genus Cilix, Leach, was created 

 for such Heterocera, which, closely allied to Platypterix, Lasp., are aberrant 

 from that generic type by the straight outer margin of the anterior wings. It 

 was established upon a European species, C. spinula, H., formerly included and 

 described under Platypterix, Lasp., as the termination of its specific name in- 

 dicates. Herrich-Schaefi'er is, however, evidently in error, in placing his C. 

 Americana under Cilix, Leach, as the outer margin of the anterior wings, unlike 

 the type of that genus, is falcate; differing, on the other hand, from Drepana, 



*A species in the Smithsonian Museum, obtained by Dr. Chas. Sartorius at Miraedor, Vera 

 Cruz, resembles this species in most respects. It is, however, different in the following 

 respects : 



It is dark slate above, v/ith blackish confluent spots, in two parallel series ; there are 

 no white borders or anal spot. Gular region uniform yellowish; a few warts on hinder 

 lace of antebrachium. Posterior face of femur uniform slaie. No light spot under eye; 

 broad cross-bands on femur and tibia. Heel reaching anterior border of orbit. I^ength 

 from muzzle to vent 3 inches. It is allied apparently to Baird's IL v a n v 1 i e t i i. It 

 may be called H. m u r i c o 1 o r. 



A beautiful species has been presented to the Academy by Capt. Field, in a collection 

 made by him in Panama. It is Hyla callidryas of the author, and may be distin- 

 guished as follows ; 



Head elon:Tate, maxillary outlines convergent, nearly straight; loreal region subvertical, 

 canthus rostralis straisht, rounded. Eyes not lar^e, transparent portion of inferior pal- 

 pebra reticulated with white; iris cupreous. Tympanum nearly as large as eye, ob- 

 liquely elliptic. 7'ongue elongate elliptic, openly emarginite. Inner nares large, widely 

 separate; vomerine teeth between them, m two oblique series, convergent pos'Criorl}', 

 an'eriorly op])osite anterior border of nares. Fingers one fourth webbed ; pallettcs very 

 large; loes one-half palmate, margined. Heel reaching end of muzzle when extended. 

 Skin above smooth. From muzzle to vent 1 inch 9 lines ; do. to atigle of mouth 7 lines 



Blue purple above, greenish on the scapular region; humerus, femur, excert a narrow 

 blue stripe, and under surfaces, uniform saffron. Numerous oblique bands of a lighter 

 yellow on the sides. 



1862.] 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Schr. and Platypterix, Lasp., by the convexity of the outer margin near the 

 middle. This diflerence is noted by Walker when describing this species under 

 Drepana, iSchr., which genus is synonymous with Platypterix, Lasp., inasmuch 

 as Walker's species, with the exception of his D. rosea, and D. emarginata, 

 C. B. M. viii., as well as those I have described, do not differ generically from 

 European species classed under Platypterix by most authorities ; which latter 

 genus, having apparently the priority, should be retained for our species. I 

 propose for Walker's D. rosea, which specific name has the priority over 

 Americana, H. S., as also for D. marginata. Walker, of which latter species I 

 have seen no specimen, but which appears from Walker's description to belong 

 here, the following genus : 



Drtoptekis, nov. gen. 



Antennae bi-pectinate in the male ; simple, or nearly so, in the female. 

 Palpi short, wings broad, anterior pair obtusely falcate, with the outer mar- 

 gin convex near the middle and extending outward to a nearly straight line 

 with the falcate tips. Body rather stouter than in Platypterix ; shorter than 

 the posterior wings. 



The species under this genus are readily distinguished from the true Platyp- 

 terigides by their brighter colors and somewhat broader and heavier wings. 

 I have carefully compared specimens of my P. fabula, and P. genicula with 

 the description of D. arcuata. Walker, C. B. M. viii., but while the description 

 presents i)oints of resemblance with both, I can positively identify it with 

 neither, and must consider it as a distinct species awaiting a comparison of 

 actual specimens. A simple enumeration of the number and coloring of the 

 bands on the anterior wings in this genus must necessarily lead to some con- 

 fusion, as there exists a great similarity in point of markings and coloring 

 among the dilierent species comprising it. P. fabula may, however, be readily 

 recognized from P. genicula by the ground color ; being in fabula diity white ; 

 in genicula, pale brownish yellow. The second and third wavy lines from the 

 base of the wing, in the former species, run close together, and unite three 

 times near the lower margin, forming two enclosed spaces ; in P. genicula 

 the second and third lines run wide apart, being also much straighter than in 

 P. fabula, in which they zigzag with acute angles, the third line crossing the 

 outside and largest discal spot ; while in P. genicula the same line runs out- 

 side of it. My descriptions are taken from males of both species. This would 

 seem the proper place to correct an error in the obs. to P. fabula, page 59. 

 It is in the American, and not in the European species, that the second and 

 third lines run together on the anterior wings, forming enclosed spaces, as 

 will be seen by the body of the description. The following is a list of all our 

 hitherto described species under this family following the classification of 

 Herrich-Schieffer, in his Syst. Verz. der Europ. Schmett. 



Drepanulina, H. S. 



Dryopteris, Grote. 



— rosea, Walker, C. B. M. viii. Cilix Americana, H. S. Lepidop. Esot. 

 p. 60, fig. 470, female. Platypterix formula, Grote, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 1862, p. 60. 



— marginata, Walker, C. B. M. viii. 



Platypterix, Laspeyres. 



— fasciata? Steph. Morris, Synopsis, N. A. Lepidop. Smithsonian Misc. 

 Coll. vol. iv. 218. 



— arcuata, Walker, C. B. M. viii. 



— fabula, Grote, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1862, p. 59. 



— genicula, Grote, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1862, p. 59. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



List of the PSEUDONETJROPTESA of Illiaois contained in the Cabinet of the 

 writer, with descriptions of over forty new species, and notes on their strnc- 

 taral affinities. 



BY BENJAMIN D. WALSH, M. A. 



[N. B. — Except where otherwise stated, the following species have been taken 

 by myself within four miles of the city of Rock Island. None of my specimens 

 are alcoholic. The species with an exclamation point (!) afiixed have been 

 kindly identified by Dr. Hagen, the author of the Smithsonian Synopsis of 

 American Neuroptera, from duplicates which I sent him in 1860 ; but to prevent 

 possible mistakes I have compared most of them with his diagnoses.] 



TERMITINA. 

 Tebmes flavipes, KoUar, South Illinois. 



PSOCINA. 

 ^2 " Tarsi two-articulate, discoidal cell closed, quadrangular.'' (Psocus, Sub- 

 genus C, Hagen.) 



Psoccs VENosus, Burm. ! P. contaminatus, Hagen ! (South Illinois.) P. 

 Nov^ SCOTIA, Walker ! P. lichenatcs, Uhler (auctore ip.«o). This last species 

 is not included in Dr. Hagen's synopsis. 



Psocus PURDS, new species. — Head cinereous, with a large fuscous spot on 

 the posterior nasus, a small round one on the ocelli, and two on the occiput, 

 which are sometimes almost obsolete ; antennae black, with three basal joints 

 whitish. Thorax and abdomen black, with the sutures whitish. Legs whitish ; 

 knees and tarsi a little fuscous. Wings hyaline, except a small black spot on 

 the middle of the posterior margin; veins black, except the posterior side of 

 the discoidal cellule and basal half of 1st sector, which are white ; pterostigma 

 triangular, hyaline, with a small fuscous spot at its basal augle ; its nervures 

 black, except the basal half of the inner nervure, which is conspicuously white ; 

 posterior wings hyaline, with violet reflections. 



Length to the tip of wings 6^ millimetres. Expanse of anterior wings 12 

 mill. Described from three specimens. 



Psocus SEMiSTRiATUs, u. sp. — Head yellowish cinereous ; nasus sometimes 

 conspicuously, sometimes obscurely, lineated with black ; in one specimen en- 

 tirely black ; a small black spot on the ocelli ; eyes (^ globose, prominent ; 

 antennae fuscous, two basal articulations, and sometimes part of the third, 

 pale ; antennae (^ with the seta hairy. Thorax and abdomen black, with the 

 sutures whitish. Legs pale, with the tarsi, and sometimes the tips of the tibiae 

 and the femora, a little fuscous. Wings entirely hyaline, except a small fus- 

 cous spot on the middle of the posterior margin; veins black; pterostigma 

 triangular, rounded behind, more or less fuscous, sometimes almost black, 

 always with the basal angle paler ; posterior wings hyaline, with green 

 reflections. 



Length to tip of wings 4 — 5 mill. Expanse of anterior wings T — 9 mill. 

 Described from eighteen specimens. 



Psocus PERPLExus, u. sp. — 9 Differs from the above in size, iu the greater 

 proportional length of the antennce, which extend beyond the wings, in the 

 ocelli being much wider apart and not connected by any black spot, and in the 

 pterostigma being of uniform fuscous color and proportionally longer and not 

 rounded behind. 



Expanse of anterior wings 11 mill. One 9 specimen. The discal bifurcation 

 of the aaterior wing is peduncled, but this is occasionally seen in semisiriatus 

 mihi. 



Psocus POLLUTUS, n. sp. — Head yellowish cinereous ; front with a round discal 



1862.] 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



black spot, and an oblique whitish line on each side near the eyes ; nasus ob- 

 scurelvlineated with fuscous; antennae fuscous. Thorax fuscous, with whitish 

 sutures. Legs pale, with knees and tarsi fuscous. Wings hyaline ; an irregular 

 band en the apical margin, connected with the pterostigma by about four irreg- 

 ular spots, an irregular median band attaining the costa, and the base of the 

 costa, fuscous ; veins black, except the posterior side of the discoidal cellule, 

 and a small spot at the furcation of the 1st sector, which are white : pterostigma 

 fuscous at tip, at base hyaline; posterior wings hyaline, with violaceous re- 

 flections. 



Length to tip of wings 4 mill. Captured one specimen in South Illinois. 



Psoccs AMABiLis, n. sp. — Head dull luteous, immaculate ; antennse robust, 

 pubescent, fuscous, with two basal joints and the base of joints 3 — 6 pale. 

 Thorax and legs dull luteous, the tarsi a little fuscous. Wings hyaline, with a 

 black spot on the middle of the posterior margin ; pterostigma hyaline, truncate 

 at tip. with a black spot at its base ; veins black, except the discal bifurcation, 

 which is white. This bifurcation is not angular, as in all the above species, 

 but rounded and peduncled, as in the species figured in Westwood"s Introduc- 

 tion (ii. p. 18, fig. 8) ; from which, however, this species differs by its two- 

 jointed feet, closed discoidal cellule, and the presence of a posterior marginal 

 cellule. 



Length to tip of wings not quite 3 mill. One specimen, found dead in the 

 room where I keep my insects. 



§§ "Tarsi two-articulate, discoidal celluleopen, absent." (Psoccs, Subgenus 

 D, Hagen.) 



Psocus ABEUPTUS, Hagen ! P. corrcptus, Hagen. P. aubastiacus, Hagen. 



Psoccs GEOLOGUS, n. sp. — Yellowish brown, ranging to almost black. Eyes 

 normal ; antennae normal, villose, fuscous. Feet pale, with the tarsi and tips 

 of tibiae sometimes fuscous. Wings hyaline, all with golden reflections ; veins 

 black : pterostigma triangular, rounded posteriorly, hyaline, witli a small spot 

 at the basal angle; posterior marginal cellule semicircular. 



Length to tip of wings IJ mill. Ten speciipens, found in the dr&wers of 

 a geological collection, into which paper had been pasted. Yerj near salicis, 

 Fitch, but distinguishable at once by the pterostigma not being truncate. 



The normal neuration of jjsocus is, apparently, a discal bifurcation with the 

 anterior furcation throwing out one branch and the posterior one throwing out 

 two, in each case towards the margin. In the groups with the discoidal cellule 

 closed, the posterior furcation seems at first sight to throw out three branches 

 instead of two; but this is in reality caused by the submedian nervure, which 

 closes the discoidal cellule by uniting with the posterior furcation, afterwards 

 leaving that furcation and running to the margin. Any one may. convince 

 himself of this fact by comparing those species where the submedian nervure 

 comes very close to the posterior furcation, but does not quite touch it, with 

 those where it does actually touch it. What I have here called the discal 

 bifurcation seems analogous to the " sectors" of tbe "arc "in the odonata ; 

 and the cross-vein from which it rises analogous with the " arc " itself. Dr. 

 Hagen has observed, that " the reticulation in P. ahruptus and P. corrupiui is 

 abnormal, and may constitute a distinct subgenus or rather genus." At first 

 sight there s»ems to be a tri- not a bi- furcation in these species, or in other 

 words, three sectors to the arc instead of two. But a closer inspection will show 

 that there are in reality only the normal number — two — the anteri.ir one throw- 

 ing out its branch a short distance from the arc, and the posterior one throwing 

 out at the usual distance one branch instead of iivo, which is the only abnormal 

 feature in the neuration of these two species. 



PERLINA. 



Pteeonabcys nobilis, Hagea. Perla (Acroneuria) absormis, Newm. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3G3 



12 PbrI/A. Subgenus Acroneuria. 



AcEONEURiA RUPiNSULENSis, n. sp. — $ Obscure luteous. Head broader thaa 

 the prothoraXj bright testaceous, the epistotna scarcely excavated ; a transverse 

 line at tip, a raised discal line in the form of an M with its sides divaricate, 

 and a subobsolete basal line commencing at the eyes aud curving backwards, 

 fuscous; the usual two inlerocular tubercles oval, oblique; palpi fuscous; 

 antennae fuscous, with the joints from 2 to about 7, and the first joint beneath 

 luteous. Prothorax nearly twice as wide as long, subcordate, anterior and 

 posterior angles acute, excurved, the sides nearly parallel before the mid- 

 dle, gradually contracted behind the middle, the prothoracic episternum not 

 thrust underneath as in other Perlas, but distinctly visible behind from above, 

 so as to give at a distance a quadrangular appearance to the whole prothorax ; 

 the middle longitudinal stria acute, surface rugulose, luteo-fuscous with fuscous 

 rugae. Presternum and anterior half of metasternum bright luteous. Legs 

 luteous, with obscure fuscous vittae. Abdomen and venter with obscure fuscous 

 markings ; abdominal setae luteous, annulate with fuscous towards their tips, 

 not pilose except under the lens ; 9 antepenultimate ventral segment regularly 

 rounded, so as at the centre, where it is slightly emarginate, to cover one half 

 of the penultimate segment, with a subobsolete linear transverse tubercle before 

 the apex. Wings subhyaline; veins of anterior wings mostly brown, of pos- 

 terior mostly clay-yellow; the vein accessory to the subcosta in the anterior 

 wing throwing out four branches, one of which occasionally becomes bifid ; in 

 one specimen the veins on the posterior apical submargin are obsolete ; from 

 four to thirteen subterminal cross-veins. 



Length to tip of wings 9 39 mill. Alar expanse 9 64 — 71 mill. Length of 

 abdomen 9 about 9 mill. The (^ 1 have not yet met with. Described from 

 two specimens. 



Differs from abnormis in the greater relative width of the prothorax, in its 

 sides not being straight, and its not having any luteous dorsal line. Also in the 

 greater extension of 9 antepenultimate ventral segment, and its having a sub- 

 terminal tubercle. From ruralis and arida it differs in the accessory subcostal 

 being 4 (not 5 or 3) branched. 



§§ Perla. Subgenus A. — Accessory vein two-branched ; three ocelli. 



Perla flavescens, n. sp. — Clay-yellow. Head a little broader than the 

 prothorax, bright clay-yellow, with a divaricating unequal carina proceeding 

 from each side of the anterior ocellus to the anterior sub-margin, where there is 

 sometimes a large dilated puncture on each side ; a large quadrangular fuscous 

 spot at tip, and another at the base, from which last issue two wide branches nearly 

 attaining the base of the antennae, the two spots sometimes almost confluent ; 

 palpi fuscous ; antennae fuscous, second joint luteous, third to about the eighth 

 luteous annulate with fuscous ; the under side of the head is more or less fuscous 

 at base. Prothorax rugose, entirely fuscous, its breadth exceeding its length by 

 one-half, considerably narrowed behind, with its sides straight, its anterior 

 angles acute, and its posterior ones a little rounded ; meso- and meta- thorax 

 brown-black, polished, with clay-yellow margins. Legs clay-yellow, femora 

 sometimes vittate beneath, and always strongly above, with brown-black, a 

 triangular spot at their tips confluent with the upper vitta, and the posterior 

 femora fuscous at base ; tibiae vittate above with fuscous ; tarsi fuscous. 

 Sternum fuscous almost entirely. Abdomen 9 sometimes fuscous only at the 

 sides and tip, sometimes with the base of each segment fuscous ; abdomen (^ 

 with the 3 or 4 basal segments clay-yellow and the rest fuscous ; venter in both 

 sexes obscure luteous, banded with fuscous; setae brown-black, pubescent; 

 (^ last few abdominal segments are curved upwards, and the last, which is small 

 and only visible at the sides, triangularly open above; 9 antepenultimate 

 ventral segment is semicircularly produced in the middle, so as to cover one- 



1862.] 




364 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



half of the penultimate. Wings subflavescent, the subcostal vein and its 

 accessory brown, the rest mostly luteous. 



Alar expanse Ji 26—29 mill., $ 35—40 mill. Length J* 3|— 4 mill., ? 4—6 

 mill. Four J^, three 9- Allied to P. capitata^ Pictet, bnt distinct. In one ^f 

 and one 9, the accessory subcostal of one wing is only one-branched. In (^ 

 of this species the 5tb abdominal segment is semicircularly elongated, so as to 

 conceal almost entirely the upcurving abdominal joints 6 — 8, and the 9th Tcn- 

 tral is entirely concealed by the 8th, which is large. 



Perla varians, n. sp. — F.uscous. Head as wide as, or wider than the pro- 

 thorax in some specimens, with the usual divaricating carinae equal and 

 polished, and obscurely returning in the form of an inverted W ; epistoma 

 longer than usual, with a dilated puncture on each side; occiput with a semi- 

 circular or transverse yellow or luteous spot, which is never longer than wide, 

 and sometimes extends to the sides of the head ; beneath luteous ; palpi and 

 antennce fuocous. Prothorax nearly twice as wide as long, quadrangular, not 

 contracted behind, the sides straight, the angles acute before, scarcely rounded 

 behind, rugulose, with a yellow or luteous vitta in the middle, and a more or 

 less obvious submarginal luteous cloud on each side. Sternum luteous. Legs 

 luteo-fuscous, with coxae, trochanters and knees luteous. Abdomen with the 

 last joint luteous ; venter obscurely marked with luteous on the disk and some- 

 times the tip. Setae fuscous, sometimes with a few basal joints luteous ; 9 ^^' 

 tepenultimate ventral segment semi-oval behind, sometimes a little angulated 

 in the middle, almost entirely covering the penultimate segment. Wings sub- 

 hyaline ; veins of anteriors brown, with a small brown cloud on the anterior 

 part of the " arc," which is never entirely obsolete ; veins of posterior wings 

 partly luteous. 



Length to tip of wings 14 — 18 mill. Alar expanse 28 — 3G mill. Length of 

 abdomen 5i — 8 mill. It comes very near to P. postica, Walker, but that species 

 has the occipital spot hastiform, and no subcostal spot on the wings. Described 

 from elp 'en specimens. The species is remarkable for having almost always 

 a cross-vein behind the accessory subcostal vein and outside the "arc," so as 

 to form there a trapezoidal or pentagonal cell. Sometimes this cross-vein is 

 present in one wing in the same individual, and absent in the other ; in one 

 specimen there are on one side three additional subapical cross-veins, making 

 four altogether, thus approximating to Acroneuria, and none at all on the other 

 side. The accessory subcostal vein is incurved at its origin, and generally 

 appendirulated there; and is further remarkable for sometimes throwing out 

 only one branch, sometimes as many as three, the wing being often normal on 

 one side and abnormal on the other. 



In the (J* the 9th ventral segment is distinct, and never concealed by the 

 8th. In the 9 the 7th abdominal segment is prolonged laterally much be- 

 yond the other abdominal segments, so as to partially cover the base of the 

 antepenultimate ventral. 



Perla decipiens, n. sp. — Bright clay-yellow, sometimes verging on orange. 

 Head wider than the prothorax, with a square black spot enclosing the ocelli, 

 and a smaller round submarginal one before, which are sometimes almost con- 

 fluent, sometimes obscure fuscous, sometimes, but not often, obsolete ; the usual 

 divaricating carina is generally a little depressed in the middle of each branch 

 and scarcely returns backwards ; palpi and antetince fuscous, the latter luteous 

 joints 2 — 8. Prothorax one-third wider than long, rugulose, quadrangular, its 

 sides straight, very slightly narrowed behind, anterior angles acute, posterior 

 ones scarcely rounded; fuscous or obscure, always with a narrow central yel- 

 low or luteous vitta ; meso- and meta-thorax more or less obscured with fuscous. 

 Legs clay-yellow, with a fuscous vitta above on the femora and tibiae, and the 

 tarsi fuscous. Abdomen sometimes a little varied with fuscous, especially 

 above, in one mature specimen entirely fuscous above and below. Setae hairy. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 365 



a little fuscous towards their tips ; (^ with the last ventral segment invisible ; 

 9 with the antepenultimate ventral segment truncate, sometimes longitudinally 

 striate in the middle, sometimes rounded and dehiscent. Wings 9 hyaline, hind 

 wings sometimes with violaceous reflections ; veins (^ 9 brown, except the costal 

 and subcostal veins and their cross-veins which are yellowish-hyaline in both 

 wings ; two or three apical costal cross-veins. In one specimen the subcostal 

 accessory vein throws off but one branch on the right wing, thereby approxi- 

 mating to subgenus C. In (^ all 4 wings are subfumose. 



Length to tips of wings 10 — 13 mill. Expanse of wings 19 — 25 mill. Length 

 of abdomen 3 — 4 mill. Eleven specimens. May be easily confounded with 

 Chloroperla bilineata, Say (noticed below,) but is always distinguishable at once 

 by the sides of the prothorax being fuscous or obscure, never yellow. It differs 

 irora P. plocida, h J the prothoracic vitta and by the costal neuration being 

 almost hyaline, so that the cross-veins are seen with difficulty; from P. occipitalis 

 by the vitta, and also by having three ocelli ; and from P. dilaticollis by having 

 three ocelli, and by the accessory subcostal vein not being incurved. The 8th 

 ventral segment (^ is large, the 9th being concealed by it. 

 no appearance of any suture. 



§1 Pekla, subgenus B. Accessory vein two-branched ; two ocelli. 



Perla ocoiptalis? Pict. — 9 Luteo-fuscous. Head wider than the prothorax, 

 bright testaceous, clouded before with fuscous and with a round black spot on 

 the ocelli; the epistoma is scarcely excavated, and the usual divaricate carina 

 . is subobsolete ; the two usual interocular tubercles are prominent and round ; 

 antennai fuscous, except the tip of the first joint and joints 2 to abr ut 7, which 

 are luteous ; palpi fuscous. Prothorax one-third wider than it is long, the 

 sides very slightly sinuate, contracted behind, rugulose, the margins fuscous. 

 Pro- and meso-sternum luteous. Legs luteous; femora and tibiae above and 

 also the tarsi fuscous. Abdominal setas clay-yellow, dusky at tip ; ^ antepe- 

 nultimate ventral segment truncate. Wings subhyaline, sometimes with green 

 and violaceous reflections on all of tbem; veins brown, the costa and subcostal 

 apical cross-veins yellowish-brown ; accessory vein not incurved at its origin. 

 The (^, which is hitherto unknown, differs from 9 in being entirely luteous 

 beneath, and in the four wings being fumose. Abdomen and venter constructed 

 as in (^ P. flavescens. 



Alar expanse 23 — 29 mill. Length of abdomen 3 — 3| mill. Differs from P. 

 dilaticollis by the subcostal vein being direct, and from P. occipitalis by the 

 veins being brown, not testaceous. One (j^, four 9- 



§5 Perla. Subgenus C. (New.) Accessory subcostal vein throwing out only 

 one branch; abdomen very long; two ocelli ; several subcostal apical cross- 

 veins and several postcostal* cross-veins in the anterior wing. 



The rf , which is hitherto unknown, differs from 9 io being entirely luteous 

 beneath, and in the four wings being fumose. Abdomen and venter con- 

 structed as in (^ P. fiavesceiis. 



Perla producta, n. sp. Brown. Head wider than the prothorax, with the 

 usual divaricate carina prolonged nearly to the tip, and obscurely reverting; 

 clay-yellow or obscure luteous, clouded with fuscous at tip, with a black or 



• I apply this term to the posterior basal corner of the wing, or postcostal space 

 {espace pcsiconlal,) in which sense it is used throughout the Synopsis, and in ^lonographie 

 des Calopterygines ; (see Plate I., fig 1). Mr. Uhler, probably through some clerical or 

 typographical error, is made to say, in the Glossary affixed 10 the Synopsis, that •' Post- 

 costal " is synonymous with " Postcubital." That this cannot possibly be so, at least 

 in Dr. Hagen's nomenclature, may be easily seen by any one who possesses a copy of 

 the Synopsis. The genus Agrion, as distinguished from the genera Pseudostigma and Me- 

 ristogaster, which have one or two series of areoles in their postcostal space, is there 

 characterized by having ' ihe postcoital spac» simple," {p. "A); and on inspecting the 

 diagnoses of the 47 N. A. species of Ag^rion, it will be found that they have a number of 

 postcubital cross-veins ranging from 7 to 16. 



1862.] 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



fuscous basal quadrangle enclosing the ocelli, longer than wide and throwing 

 ofiFon each side at tip a small branch reaching the two interocular tubercles 

 which are round ; beneath clay-yellow or luteou3 obscure ; antennte fuscous, ex- 

 cept joints 2 — 6 or 8, which are more or less luteous ; palpi fuscous. Thorax 

 one- third wider than long, a little contracted behind, its sides straight, anterior 

 angles slightly, posterior ones much rounded, rugulose, luteous with fuscous 

 mariiings, or sometimes entirely fuscous. Legs luteous, femora and tibiae vittate 

 above with fuscous ; tarsi and generally the knees fuscous. Abdominal setae 

 clay-yellow, with long hairs; conspicuously banded with fuscous in their cen- 

 tral portion and fuscous at tip ; $ antepenultimate ventral segment truncate, 

 with a triangular tubercle sometimes apparently bifid at its apex ; (J' last ab- 

 dominal segment small and only visible laterally. Front wings hyaline, with 

 a slight brownish tinge ; veins brown, a little lighter on the costa; from two to 

 five subcostal apical cross-veins; accessory vein direct; from two to four post- 

 costal cross-veins. Hind wings hyaline, the veins pale, except at the tips. 



Length to lip cf wings 12 — 17 mill. Alar expanse 21 — 29 mill. Length of 

 abdomen 3i — 6^ mill. Twelve specimens. I obtained a single specimen at 

 Chicago which has the accessory subcostal in one wing two-branched. In 

 more than fifty Rock Island specimens which I have examined, it is one- 

 branched in both wings. The tip of the 8th ventral segment (^ is luteous, and 

 conceals the 9th. 



Perla fumipesnis, n. sp. — Diifers from the preceding in the anterior and pos- 

 terior wings being distinctly and equally subt'umose, the veins fuscous, and as 

 dark in the hind as in the front wings ; and also in the costa of both wings being 

 yellowish. The head is bright clay-yellow, the spot enclosing the ocelli black, 

 and the thorax is brown-black, immaculate. Three postcostal cross-veins. 



Alar expanse 17 mill. Length abd. 4^ mill. One (^ specimen. 



§§ Perla. Subgenus D. — Differs from the preceding only in the ocelli being 

 three in number. 



Perla elosgata, n. sp. — (^ Differs from the (J' oi producta in being one-third 

 larger, in the antennoe and setae being fuscous, immaculate, and in the prothorax 

 having a wide clay-yellow vitta on each side the middle, extending outwards 

 on the anterior and posterior margins. The head is clay yellow, with the spot 

 enclosing the ocelli black ; subcostal apical cross-veins 2 — 4 ; postcostal cross- 

 veins 4 — 5. 



Alar expanse (^ 23 — 25 mill. Abdomen (^ 5 — 5^ mill. Three i^ ; 9 ^'^- 

 knowu. The protboracic markings resemble those of P. ni'jrocincta, Pictet, but 

 that species is larger, has only two ocelli, and is, besides, arranged as having 

 the accessory subcostal two-branched. The 9th ventral (J* is concealed by the 

 8th, which has at its tip a large, smooth, transversely oval tubercle, with a 

 striated outline, as in (^ Acroneuria abnormis. 



§§ Perla. Subgenus Chloroperla. 

 Chloroperla bilineata ? Say. — The epistoma has generally, as Say describee 

 it, "an obscure triangular spot," or is more or less clouded with fuscous, but I 

 have not seen a specimen " with two straight fuscous lines before the discal 

 ones" on the head, as described by Dr. Hagen. Neither are the veins "testa- 

 ceous," as Dr. Hagen describes them, except on the disk and lip of the front 

 wings ; elsewhere they are yellowish-hyaline. For these reasons, and because 

 I believe I forwarded specimens of my species to Dr. Hagen in 1S60, and he re- 

 ported them to me as " C'lloroperla, new species," 1 conjecture that my insect 

 is the true bilineata, Say, and that Dr. Hagen has described under that name a 

 different insect, or at all events a geographical race of Say's species. Say in- 

 deed states that " the scutel is biraaculate, spots blackish, placed transversely, ' 

 which is not the case in any of my specimens, and is not stated to be the case 

 in Dr. Hagen's diagnosis. But this is so contrary to the general style of or- 

 namentation in Perlina, that Say was probably mistaken, and mistook a cimtd 

 for itoo spots. In my specimens the meso- and meta-thorax are luteous, more or 

 IcBB obscurely clouded with fuscous. 



i;scpt. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



367 



Sometimes in my species the head is pure yellow, with only the eyes and 

 ocelli black. The abdomen is sometimes pure yellow, sometimes with a wide 

 fuscous band in the middle, sometimes entirely fuscous. But ihe prothoracic 

 rittae are always distinct. The (^ has the last abdominal joint small, internal. 



The 2 antepenultimate ventral segment is triangularly extended so as to 

 completely cover the penultimate. The 9th (J' ventral is apparently concealed 

 by the 8th, which is very large and triangularly extended at tip, with no ap- 

 pearance of any suture. 



Length to tip of wings 11 — 14 mill. Alar expanse 21 — 27 mill. Length of 

 abd. 3 — 4 mill. Twenty specimens. 



Chlokoperla brcnsipesxis. n. sp. — Brown-black. Head much wider than 

 the prothorax ; ocelli three; epistoma generally luteous ; antennae luteous at 

 base. Mouth, base of abdomen, and all beneath, generally obscure luteous. 

 Prothorax rather wider than long, its sides straight, contracted behind, its 

 angles slightly rounded. Setas luteous at base, sometimes all but their tips 

 luteous. .^ntepenultimate segment 9 venter covering | the penultimate. 

 Legs luteous, femora with a broad median black band, sometimes inter- 

 rupted beneath, especially in the front legs ; tibia black on their basal half, 

 sometimes luteous beneath, especially in the front legs. Wings all brownish, 

 the costa yellowish ; veins the color of the wing; front wings with a streak be- 

 tween the postmedian and postcostal veins, and the region of the origin of the 

 accessory subcostal, hyaline. 



Alar expanse 16 — 21 mill. Length abd. 3i — 4 mill. Two (^ one $. 



Chloroperla nana, d. sp. — Differs from the above in size, in the bead beinf 

 immaculate above and below, and in the prothorax being one-half wider than 

 long, its angles rounded, and with a broad, median, luteous vitta. The hya- 

 line streaks on the wings are absent. 



Length to tip of wings 6 J mill. Alar expanse 11^ mill. Abd. 2 mil!. One 

 9? specimen. 



IsoPTERYX CYDIPPE, Newmau ! {= Perla imbecilla. Say?) Capkia minima? 

 Newport. T^nioptervx fasciata, Burm. ! (= T. frigida, Hagen ?) Nemocra 

 coMPLETA, Walker. 



EFEEMERINA. 



(Anierior tarsi always five-jointed ; the others generally five-jointed, butfoar- 

 jointed in Ephemera and Cloe.) 



Firsv tarsal joint longer 1 

 than the second, except I t,^„„ , , 



in anterior :J tarsi.8, \^^^- subgenus A. 

 where they are equal. J 



First tarsal joint always | „ , „ 



longer than the second, j Bins, subgenus B. 



First tarsal joint shorter i o „ v. ^ 



I than the second. | Bins, subgenus C. 



1 



Cross-veins numerous ; 

 costal cruss-veios nu- 

 meroQs, robust, regu- 

 lar. (Wings 4, hind 

 wings wiiie with nu- 

 merous veins: very 

 few short, terminal 

 isolated veinlets at 

 the tips of any of the 

 ■wings.) 



1862.1 



'Eyes cf contiguous, 

 simple. (Interme- 

 diate seta, when 

 present, rudiment- 

 al.) 



Eyes jf contiguous, 

 double. (Three sub- 

 equal setae both in 

 imago and cubim- 

 ago.) 



Eyes (J not contigu- 

 ous, simple; inter- 

 mediate seta, when 

 present, t^hort or | 

 rudimental. J 



Eyes cf remote, sim-" 

 pie ; three long se- 

 ise, subequal in im- 

 ago, equal in sub- 

 l imago. , 



•POTAMANTHCS. 



|- P.4LISGESIA, subgenus A. 



[ Palisoe^ha, subgenne C. 



Legs all short ; intermedi- 

 ate seta short. _, 



Legs all short, except cf | 

 anterior logs: intermedi- >Pausgema, enbgenns B. 

 ate seta rudimental. J 



Legs all long ; no interme- (^ 

 diate seta. 



•Efbsme&a. 




368 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Cross-veins less nume- 

 rous ; costal cross- 

 veins, exempt the ba- 

 sal cross-vein and oa 

 the termiaal | of cos- 

 ta, almost invisible 

 and partially absent.-^" 

 (Many short terminal 

 isolated veinlets at 

 the tips either of the 

 front or hind wings, 

 except in Cams.) 



( Eyes (f contiguous, 



simple. (Wings 4, ("Three long and equal setje. Ephemerslla, n. g. 



hiad wings wide,-; Three setse, the middle one > „ 



with numerous ( rudimental. J is^stisca, n. g. 



veins.) 



f Wings 4, cross-veins ra- ) Cloe, subgenus A. 



Eyes cf contiguous, ther numerous (60 or 60.) ) 



double. (Wings 4 j Wings 4,cro86-veins sparse [ p .„h(ren«s R 



or 2 ; hind wing.s ] (14—18.) j- I.L0E, subgenus IS. 



with 2 or 3 veins.) |^ Wings 2^ cross-veins sparse 1 ^^^^^^ subgenus C. 



Eyes cf remote, 



pie. (Wings 2, se- J" '•• CSNIS. 



taeS.) 



e, sim-") 



1 2, se- y ■ 



Costal cross-veins nu- 

 merous, robust, regu- • 

 lar : wings 4. 



Seta 

 one i 



Seta: 3, the middle 

 one rudimental. 



B^lis, subgenus A. 



As it is oftea difficult in the dried specimen to distinguish whether the i^ 

 eyes are single or double, and as sexual generic characters are practically in- 

 convenient, the following synoptical table, which excludes them, except in two 

 subgenera, has been prepared : 



First tarsal joint entirely "| 

 obsolete in cf $ 4 hind VEphemerK. 

 legs. j 



Setae 3, subequal. {First tarsal joint indis-1 



tinct and connate with pot.,manthu8. 

 the tibia in cf V ^ hind [ 

 legs, but not obsolete. j 



nLloit.! "'''''} ■.P..u.aBKiA,subgenusA. 



^ 'than t^o'nd^""* '"'"■'" } ^— -' -''Se"- ^- 

 First tarsal joint longer ] 

 than second, except in 

 anterior cf tarsus, where 

 they are equal. J 



First tarsal joint longer | 

 than second in all cf ? /-Bins, subgenus B. 

 ( legs. I 



f First tarsal joint shorter] 



(than second, indistinct 1 ^ , _ 



and connate with the ti- ^^™' subgenus C. 

 bia in all cf ? legs. j 



I First tarsal joint shorter] 



I than second, distinct and > Pausgenia, subgenus C. 

 I free in all cf ? legs. ) 



r-.xT- J L- J • fThree equal Bfctje. Ephemerella, n. sr. 



f Wings 4, hind wings ) Three sets, middle one ru- U 

 Costal cross-veins, ex- wide. (^ dimental. \ Brusca, n. g. 



cept at tip and ex- ( Cross-veins rather nume- 1 ^ _ . 



treme base, very slen- j ^^ngs 4, hmd wings J ^oub, (50—60.) / ^^°^> swogenus A. 



der; entirely absent! narrow. (Cross-veins sparse, (14-18) Cloe, subgenus B. 



on some part of the f Two setse ; cross-veins 1 ,-, . _ 



oosta. I sparse, (14-18.) [ Cloe, subgenus C 



I- Wings z. -^ Three setae ; cross-veins ] 



i very sparse, (4 — ) j 



• Cssis. 



B^TIS. 



§^ Batis. Subgenus A. — First tarsal joint distinct, large, always larger than 

 any of the three following, except in the anterior (^ tarsus ; joints 1— t regular- 

 ly and notably diminishing in length, except in the anterior (^ tarsus, where 

 joints 1-4 are long and subequal and joint 1 is distinctly free. A rudimental 

 intermediate seta, distinctly articulate, sometimes turned downwards. 



B.^Tis PEMORA.TA, Say. — Undescribed imago. — jj* Piceous. Eyes in the liv- 

 ing insect pearly whitish on their superior f , with a moveable black spot ; the 

 inferior \ pale dusky, divided from the whitish part by a definite line ; antennjB 

 dusky, pale at extreme tip. Prosternum a little marked with whitish, some- 

 times almost entirely whitish ; a broad transverse oblong whitish baud between 

 the hind coxae, sometimes very conspicuous. Abdomen with joints 1-5 whitish 

 hyalioe, each with a narrow piceous band before the incisures, an obscure, ob- 

 long, medial spot on each side of the dorsum, and a slight piceous pulverules- 



[S^pt. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



cence above; on the lateral base of joints 6 and 7 a semi-oval whitish spot ex- 

 tending to their middle, and a similar spot covering the vrhole ride of the last 

 joint; venter -whitish hyaline; anal processes whitish, sometimes with only 

 their middle joint whitish ; seta; whitish, with fuscous incisures alternately wide 

 and narrow. Anterior legs a little longer than the body, with very long tarsi, 

 pale brown, sometimes with the basal half of their femora brown ; the four pos- 

 terior legs paler; all six with a broad postmedian band on the femora, the base 

 and tips of the tibiae, and the tarsal incisures and tips brown. Wings hyaline; 

 veins and cross-veins, hyaline, subequal, moderate, except the three veins of 

 the costa, one discal sector with its basal cross-veins, and sometinaes some of 

 the other veins, which are fuscous ; at the discal bifurcation of this sector there 

 is a more or less obvious small brown spot ; subcostal cross-veins fuscous, 

 rather coarse ; a coarse medial black line immediately behind the third vein of 

 the costa, about a millimetre long, and sometimes a slight brown cloud at the 

 costal tip ; posterior wings hyaline, with hyaline veins and cross-veins, except 

 one long and one short series of cross-veins on the basal costa, which are strong- 

 ly fuscous and enclose a brown cloud. 



The $ differs from the (^ as follows : joints 1 — 5 of abdomen are piceous 

 brown above, paler towards their base ; the anterior legs, as usual in epheme- 

 rinal 9 imagos, are shorter; and there is no basal cloud on the hind wings. 



Length (^ 12— 13J mill. ; 9 12^—14 mill. Alar exp. ^ 25—28 mill. ; ? 

 28—29 mill. Setse (^ 20—24 mill. ; $ 13—16 mill. Ant. l«g J^ 14 mill. ; $ 9 

 mill. Eight J^, two 9 . 



- The subimago, which alone was known to Say, is a very different looking in- 

 sect from ths imago ; but having found a specimen drowned in the act of 

 moulting, I succeeded in detaching the subimaginal film from the abdomen and 

 from one wing, thus proving their identity. Say states that in ^J' " the ner- 

 vures are browa and margined with brown, more particularly so at the base, 

 middle and tip of their costal margins." This makes, of course, 3 darker 

 clouds on the base, middle and tip respectively of the costal margin, which are 

 more or less plain on all my specimens both (^ and 9? the central cloud al- 

 ways verj^ distinct, the basal one the least so. Dr. Hagen has misunderstood 

 Say's language, and abridging his description sa3's, " veins clouded with fuscous, 

 especially the basal discoidal and apical ones," which would make three fus- 

 cous fasciae. It may be added to Say's description, that the antennal seta is 

 fuscous, the basal joints pale, sometimes tipped with fuscous ; that the (^ and 

 9 anterior legs are a shade darker than the posterior ones ; and that besides 

 the femoral bands, the base and tip of the tibiae, and the tarsal incisures and 

 tips, are also brown in all the legs. The abdominal setae are pale brown with 

 brown incisures, pilose at tip ; and the wings are very finely ciliated behind. 



Length 10^ — 14 mill. Alar exp. 24 — 32 mill. Setae 10—14 mill. Ant. (^ 

 leg 9 mill. Ant. leg 9 8^ mill. Five J*, two 9 . 



B^Tis ALTERN'ATA? Say. — ^ Piccous brown. The lower \ of the eyes, in the 

 living insect, is separated from the upper f by a black line; antennal seta 

 dusky ; epistoma pale. Base of scutel yellowish all round. Sternum a little 

 marked with yellowish. Abdomen with two lateral basal triangular yellowish 

 spots on segments 2 — 9 or 4 — 9 more or less confluent, sometime? extending to 

 the dorsum ; on joints 7 and 8 and sometimes on 6, one or both of these spots 

 often enclose a longitudinal brown line and are much elongated ; venter pale, 

 each joint generally with a small central basal spot, two transverse medial dots 

 and an oblique slightly abbreviated lateral line, brown ; joints 1 — 2 and 8 — 9 

 sometimes almost brown ; setae whitish with brown incisures ; anal appendages 

 pale, generally brownish at base. Anterior legs pale brown, posterior 4 almost 

 pale, all with the extreme base and tip and a wide subterminal band on the 

 femora, base and tips of the tibiae and the tarsal incisures and tips, brown. 

 Wings hyaline, glittering, with fuscous veins and cross-veins, the veins rather 

 fine, except the three on the costa which are quite coarse, and the cross-veins, 



1862.] 25 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



except the oblique basal subcostal one which is quite coarse, so very fine as to 

 he almost imperceptible to the naked eye, giving the whole wing a very peculiar 

 appearance. The anterior (^ tarsus is very long ; in the living insect the first 

 joint is seen to be freely moveable. 



The 9 has two diverging carinse between the ocelli, the anterior and lateral 

 edges of the vertex, and sometimes its medial carina, and on each side two ab- 

 breviated vittae, yellowish. The markings of the abdomen are occasionally in- 

 distinct. 



Length J> 10^—12* mill. ; $ 10— 11^ mill. Alar exp. J^ 23—30 mill. ; $ 

 26-32 mill. Length '(^ seta 19-31 mill. ; 9 18-19 mill. Length J* ant. leg 

 (one specimen) 16 mill. Ant. tarsus 9 mill. ; 9 ^^^- ^^S (same size) 8 mill. 

 Described from fifteen (^, six 9- Say states that the wings are '-whitish," 

 or" hyaline with a whitish reflection." In other respects his description agrees 

 with the 9 of the above. Very abundant at Rock Island, and I have also 

 taken it on Coal Valley Creek, Rock Island Co. and the Des Plaines River near 

 Chicago. 



The (5* and 9 subimago, with which Say was not acqua nted, differ from the 

 imago in the colors and markings being darker and more obscure, and in the 

 wings being fumose and the veins and cross-veins coarser and more distinct. 

 The tips of the hind wings, including the nervures, are pale greenish. As in all 

 other subimagos known to me, the posterior edge of the wings, when held up 

 to the light, exhibits under a strong lens a ciliated appearance, and the setae are 

 pilose. The (^ anterior legs are no longer than those of 9- 



Length J^ 11 mill. ; 9 10—12 mill. Alar exp. J^ 29 milL ; 9 29—30 mill. 

 Seta J^ 13 mill.; 9 14 — 15 mill. Length ant. ^ leg 8 mill; it tarsus 4 mill. 

 One (5^, two 9- 



|§ Bcetis. Subgenus B. — First tarsal joint large, always larger than any of the 

 three following; in anterior ^ and 9 legs free, distinct ; in 4 posterior (^ and 

 9 legs connate, indistinct; joints 1 — 4 regularly and moderately diminishing 

 in length ; no difference in the relative proportions of ^ and 9 anterior tarsal 

 joints. A rudimental intermediate seta, sometimes turned downwards. 



B.ETis ARiDA? Say. — (^ Ferruginous. Head light ferruginous; ocelli not 

 approximate, subequal ; a large black spot on the inside orbit of each posterior 

 ocellus, and a small spot on the back part of the front one ; eyes in the dried 

 specimen black, occasionally with a broad interior pale purple vitta ; seta pale 

 at tip, sometimes entirely pale. Thorax and abdomen piceous above, except 

 the last abdominal segment, with ferruginous semicircles or triangles on the 

 basal half of each piceous segment of the abdomen: longitudinal middle of 

 sternum and venter piceous ; seta pale greenish ; anal appendages sometimes 

 fuscous towards the tip. Anterior legs long, obscure greenish, fuscous on the 

 terminal half of the femora and the tibial and tarsal tips, occasionaWy entirely 

 fuscous, except the basal half of the tarsal joints; four hind legs greenish 

 white, a little cloudy at the tips of the tarsi ; the first tarsal joint in the an- 

 terior leg is free in the living insect. Wings hyaline ; veins and cross-veins 

 subequal, rather fine, greenish-hyaline, with a trace of fuscous at the extreme 

 base of the costa. 



The 9 diflfers from the (^ as follows : The eyes of the living specimen are 

 ferruginous, with a broad yellowish vitta dividing them into two equal por- 

 tions, in the dead specimen dark ferruginous ; the vertex is yellow, sometimes 

 with a ferruginous vitta. Except in two specimens, where the markings are 

 similar to those of (j^, the body is of a nearly uniform ferruginous color ; the 

 anterior legs are generally marked as in the exceptional r^ specimen ; and the 

 nervures of the wings, except occasionally on the posterior margin of the front 

 wings, are pale fuscous. Similar sexual variations in the color of the wing 

 veins occur in Palingenia. 



Length J* 10—12 mill.; 9 9—13 mill. Alar exp. (^ 22J— 25^ mill. 



" [Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



$ 23^— 32 mill.- Seta J> 18— 23 mill. ; $ 17—26 mill. Length anterior leg 

 (^ 9h mill.; 9 (same size) 7] mill. Described from six fj*, nine 9- Say 

 says, " Vertex with a small black spot each side on the orbit." Did he refer to 

 the orbits of the ocelli ? There are no other spots on the head ia my species. 

 His description was posthumously published, and lacks the word " brown" or 

 " piceous" at the end. 



The (^ 9 subimago, which are undescribed by Say, and from which I have 

 bred numerous specimens of the imago, dilTer from the imago as follows : The 

 (^ body is often of an obscure grayish fuscous color, the lateral markings of 

 the abdomen, when present, being more obscure than in the imago ; in the 

 9 these markings are never visible. The eyes of the living (^ insect are sepa- 

 rated by a narrow fissure, sometimes visible even in the dried specimen, 

 whereas, in (^ imago they are always contiguous. The abdominal setae are 

 greenish obscure, sometimes a little dusky at tip, always pilose under the 

 lens. The anterior legs (^ 9 'io ^o^ differ in length from one another, and are 

 generally entirely fuscous, except the base of the first and sometimes of the 

 second tarsal joints. The wings are clouded with dusky, especially towards 

 the lips; veins and cross-veins dusky, rather coarse, subequal; all the cross- 

 veins bordered with fuscous; hind wings conspicuously and widely bordered 

 with fuscous behind. 



Length J> 8—11^ mill. ; 9 9— 12| mill. Alar exp. (f 20—24 mill.; 9 26—32 

 mill. Setae ^ 12— 14 mill. ; 9 10— 14 mill. Eight (j^, five 9 . Differs from 

 B. iffnava, Hagen (a subimago) chiefly in the feet not being rufous. 



B^Tis SICCA, n. sp. — (^ Ferruginous. Head light ferruginous ; seta pale ; 

 eyes in the dried specimen blackish ; orbits of ocelli not conspicuously darker 

 inside. Thorax piceous ; pleura ferruginous ; sternum piceous. Abdomen 

 piceous above, except the last segment; setae pale greenish, slenderly incised 

 with fuscous; anal appendages a little darker towards the tip. Anterior legs 

 short, piceous, except the tip of the tibia, which is black, and the first tarsal 

 joint, which is always conspicuously pale, except at the incisures ; four posterior 

 legs pale greenish, extreme tarsal tips cloudy. Wings hyaline, veins and cross- 

 veins subequal, rather fine, fuscous, in a very mature specimen pale fuscous. 



The 9 differs from (J^ in the thorax and abdomen being immaculate, and in 

 the anterior tarsi being pale fuscous, except the first joint, which is pale as in ,-J>. 



Length J> 8| — 10 mill. ; 98^— lijmill. Alar exp. (^ 19— 22 mill.; 2 23—27 

 mill. Seta (^ 19 mill. ; 9l5™ill- Anterior leg manure (;j^ 6 mill. ; O (similar 

 size) 5j mill. Three (^, two 9- ^^'^J he easily confounded at first sight with 

 arida, but is sufficiently distinct by the short anterior (^ legs, the pale first 

 tarsal joint in (^ 9 anterior legs and the fuscous (^ wing-veins. This, as 

 well as arida, Say, differs from vicaria, Walker, and anmdafa, Walker, in the four 

 posterior legs not being two- or more banded, and in some other respects. 



The (^ 9 subimago are scarcely distinguishable from those of arida, but the 

 eyes of the living (^ are contiguous. The species occurs a month later than 

 arida. 



§§ Bestir. Subgenus C. — First tarsal joint indistinct, connate, moderate, equal 

 to about f joint 2, except in anterior (^ tarsus, where it is about J; joints 

 2 — 4, moderately diminishing in length in all (^ 9 ^^gs. No intermediate 

 seta visible, even in the living insect. 



B.ETIS DEBiLis? Walker, Catal. — (^ Ferruginous. Eyes in the living insect 

 with their lower fourth fuscous and their upper three-fourths brown, and with 

 coarser facets ; seta of antennae dusky, pale at tip. Thorax generally piceous. 

 Abdomen with the terminal third or half of each joint more or less piceous ; anal 

 appendages pale ; seta whitish, immaculate. Legs pale greenish, with a median 

 narrow band on the femora, and generally the knees, fuscous; the anterior legs 

 generally with the tips of the tibia and tarsal incisures and tips fuscous ; the 

 four hind legs with only the tarsal tips fuscous. Wings hyaline; veins and 

 1862.] 




372 PROCEEDINGS 01" THE ACADEMY OF 



cross-veins moderate, subequal, pale greenish hyaline, except the basal third of 

 the three costal veins, and occasionally their tips, which are fuscous ; in the 

 hind wings they are all immaculate. 



The 9 difiPers from (^ as follows: The general color is paler; the thorax is 

 generally almost yellow ; the abdomen ferruginous, each joint generally darker 

 at tip ; and the wing-veins are dusky along the costa and at the tip of the wing, 

 gradually becoming hyaline as they approach the postcostal angle. 



Length ^ 4—5^ mill. ; $ 5—7 mill. Alar exp. J* 14—15 mill. ; 2 15—16 

 mill. Seta J* 13— 14 mill.; 9 8— llj mill. Anterior leg (^ T mill. ; 9 (same 

 size) 5 mill. Eight (^, eight 9- The diagnosis of debilis is so brief that it is 

 scarcely sufiScient. 



The (^ subimago differs from the imago in the general color being obscure ; 

 the thorax is almost yellowish, and the abdomen obscure piceous or ferruginous, 

 immaculate; the anterior tarsi are fuscous; the abdominal seta cloudy at tip 

 and pilose under the lens; the wings are fumose, the veins and cross-veins 

 fuscous, the former rather coarse, the latter moderate; and the fringe on the 

 posterior edge of the wings is long and dense. 



Length (^ 4^ — 5^ mill. Alar exp. (^ 13 — 15 mill. Seta (^ about 5 mill. 

 Anterior leg (^ (same size as (^ imago) 5 mill. Two (J' ; 9 unknown. 



POTAMANTHUa. 



PoTAMANTHUS cuPiDus, Say. — Undcscribed imago. — (^ Piceous, highly pol- 

 ished ; venter, except the penultimate joint, ferruginous ; anal processes pale ; 

 setae whitish, with fuscous incisures alternately wide and narrow on the basal 

 half, uniform behind the middle, and towards the tip becoming very wide. 

 Anterior legs brown, darker at the knees and the tips of the tibise : four hind 

 legs pale yellowish brown, immaculate. Wings hyaline, veins rather coarse, 

 especially on the costa, cross-veins fine, the former fuscous, except on the 

 postcosta, where they are hyaline ; the latter hyaline, except at the subcostal 

 tip of the front wing, where they are fuscous. 



Length ^ Y^ mill. Alar expanse (^ 18 mill. Setae (^18| mill. ; intermediate 

 seta about 16 mill. Anterior leg ^ 8 mill. One (^ ; 9 unknown. 



The subimago, which alone was known to Say, and from which, after several 

 unsuccessful attempts, I finally succeeded in breeding the (^ imago, occurs 

 rather abundantly on rafts of Wisconsin pine-logs from the middle of May to 

 the middle of June, unaccompanied, so far as I could discover, by the imago. 

 The " two divergent, abbreviated, obsolete, whitish lines" which Say mentions 

 as peculiar to the (^ (= 9 ^piid Say) I noticed only in a single 9 > ^^od they 

 disappear in death. 



Length J^ 7—9 mill. ; 9 9 mill. Alar exp. (^ 20—26 mill. ; 9 19— 24 mill. 

 Setae J> 11—14 mill.; intermediate seta ^ 9—12 mill. Setae 9 8^^-11 J mill. ; 

 intermediate seta 9 8 — lOi mill. Ant. leg. (^ 8 mill. ; 9 (same size) 7 mill. 

 Eleven (5^, three 5. 



PoTAMANTHUs? ODONATUS, n. sp. — Piccous; scx Uncertain; head, anterior legs 

 and abdomen deficient. Posterior legs pale ferruginous, tips of tarsi cloudy. 

 Wings hyaline; veins moderate, fuscous ; paler towards base ; cross-veins fine, 

 fuscous at terminal half, hyaline at basal half; terminal one-third of anterior 

 wiog dusky, with a definite outline. 



Alar expanse 25 mill. I have referred this fragmentary specimen, which I 

 found drowned in a pool of water, to Potamanthus, because it agrees with that 

 genus in its tarsal structure (which is the same as that of Beetis, subgenus C.) 

 and also in its peculiar neuration, — viz. : four A'eins on the postcosta, the an- 

 terior one much curved, and emitting anteriorly from its centre a bifurcate vein. 

 I am no^ aware that there are any other examples in Ephemerina of the style of 

 ornamentation, so characteristic of the Odonata, which prevails in the wings 

 of this species. 



[Sept, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 373 



Palingenia. 



§1 Palingenia. Subgenus A. — First tarsal joint distinct in tlie anterior legs, 

 indistinct and connate in the four posterior legs ; legs short, bind legs not 

 nearly attaining the tip of the abdomen ; intermediate seta rather short; eyes 

 of (^ separated by a space as wide as the orbit of the posterior ocellus. 



Palingenia vittigera, n. sp. — (^ Yellowish. Ocelli and vertex piceous; 

 antennae pale ferruginous, seta whitish at tip. Prothorax piceous on its dor- 

 sum ; thorax piceous to the base of the wings. Abdomen piceous on its dor- 

 sum, dorsum of each joint with two narrow, yellowish, divergent basal vittse 

 extending half way to its tip ; anal appendages yellowish ; set* whitish, im- 

 maculate. Legs yellowish, anteriors with the base and tips of the tibia;, and 

 the tarsal incisures and tips fuscous; four hind legs with only the tips of the 

 tibiae and the tarsal tips fuscous. Wings hyaline; veins and cross-veins fine, 

 subequal, hyaline, except on the costa, where they are coarse, the first vein 

 fuscous at base, yellowish at tip ; the second and third yellosvish throughout; 

 the costal cross veins fuscous at base, becoming yellowish towards the tip of 

 the costa; in the hind wings two costal veins, with their connecting cross-veins, 

 are pale fuscous. 



Length (^ 18 mill. Alar expanse (^ 32 mill. Setae ^ about 40 or 50 mill 

 Intermediate seta (^ 5 mill. Anterior leg (^ 9 mill. ; 9 unknown. 



^IPalinge.nia. Subgenus B. — First tarsal joint distinct in the anterior legs, 

 indistinct and connate in the four posterior legs ; legs short, except the (^ an- 

 terior legs, hind leg not attaining the tip of the abdomen ; intermediate seta 

 rudimental; eyes (^ separated by a space twice as wide as the orbit of the 

 posterior ocellus. 



Palingenia limbata, Pictet, (= No. 4, P. bilineata, Say, apud Hagen,) P. 

 BiLiNEATA, Say, (= No. 5, i*. /«/rt6ate, Guerin, apud Hagen.) — An attentive'com- 

 parison of Say's description with Dr. Hagen's diagnoses will, I think, satisfy 

 any one that Dr. Hagen has wrongly identified Say's species, and that his No. 

 5, not his No. 4, is the true bi/ineala, Say. The following particulars in Say's 

 description apply to No. 5, as described by Dr. Hagen himself, and not to No. 4: 

 "Prothorax blackish each side and before;" "wings hyaline, whitish, with 

 fuscous nervures;" [Say describes the 9 of ''is species, and the 9 of No. 4 

 has yellowish wings with yellow veins ;"] " a double series of whitish, oblique" 

 — [typographical or clerical error for oblong?] — "dilated abbreviated lines" 

 on the abdomen. Moreover, Say describes it as "appearing in considerable 

 numbers." Now, No. 5 positively swarms at Rock Island every summer, and I 

 found it in similar profusion in Southern Illinois on the Ohio River; No. 4, on 

 the contrary, is quite rare ; I have met with only nine or ten specimens in five 

 years near Rock Island, and in Southern Illinois I did not meet with anj- at 

 all. Mr. Uhler agrees with me, as appears from his note in Say's Works, 

 (i. p. 203.) 



§§ Palingenia. Subgenus C. — First tarsal joint distinct in all the legs, freely 

 movable by the living insect in the anterior legs ; legs all long ; hiud legs 

 much more than attaining the tip of the abdomen ; no intermediate seta ; eyes 

 (5^, separated by a space at least as wide as the orbit of the posterior ocellus. 



Palingenia flavescens, n. sp. — (^ Yellowish. Ocelli fuscous ; vertex fer- 

 ruginous ; seta dusky, whitish at tip. Thorax ferruginous, sometimes verging 

 on piceous. Dorsum of abdomen ferruginous, joints 1 — 6 darker at tip, and 

 with two subobsolete pale basal vittse on the dorsum ; venter pale greenish, 

 except the three or four last joints ; anal processes pale, fuscous at tip ; setae 

 whitish, the incisures fuscous, occasionally towards the base alternately white 

 and narrow. Anterior legs pale ferruginous ; a medial and terminal band on 

 the femora, tips of tibiae and tarsal incisures and tips fuscous ; four hind legs 

 1862.] 




374 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



yello-wish, with the tips of femora fuscous, and the tarsal incisures and tips a 

 little cloudy. Wings hyaline, with a pale ferruginous cloud along the costal 

 tip ; veins and cross-veins moderate, subequal, fuscous, except the three 

 costal veins which are coarse, yellowish on their basal two-thirds, fuscous on 

 their terminal one-third, where the cross-veins also are coarse, the oblique 

 basal cross-vein being always very coarse ; half way to the tip the second 

 costal vein is always thickened and obfuscated for the length of half a milli- 

 metre, sometimes obviously, sometimes indistinctly. 



The 9 is paler than the rf ; the vertex and thorax being rather luteous 

 than ferruginous, and the dorsum of the abdomen i^ale fuscous, or pale ferru- 

 ginous, with no appearance of any vittas ; in one specimen the setae are imma- 

 culate, except at the extreme tip ; the costal cross-veins are hyaline on their 



Length rf 9—13 mill. Q 10-13 mill. Exp. (^ 24—31 mill. $ 27—34 mill. 

 Seta ^ 27—38 mill. 9 27—28 mill. Ant. leg (^ 13 mill. 9 (same size) 10 

 mill. Eleven r^, three 9 • Resembles Bcetis vicaria, Walker, but differs in 

 the coloring of the wing-veins. 



The (^ subimago differs from the r^ imago in the vittfe of the abdomen being 

 obsolete. The setse are obscure greenish, immaculate, pilose ; the anal pro- 

 cesses are immaculate ; the wings are slightly tinged with fuscous, and ciliated 

 behind, and the coloring of the veins and cross -veins is not so strongly marked. 



The 9 subimago differs from the 9 imago in the abdominal joints, 1 — 6 

 being of a deep egg-yellow, from the included eggs showing through the in- 

 tegument ; the seta is pale, a little fuscous at tip ; the wings are subflaves- 

 cent, subopaque, ciliated behind ; the veins yellowish, and the cross-veins 

 also yellowish, except on the disk and tip. 



Length (^ 10 mill. ; 9 llj mill. Alar exp. J- 29 mill. ; 9 30 mill. Seta 

 (J 17 mill. ; 9 13 mill. Ant. leg J^ 9 10 mUl. One J^, one 9 . 



Palingenia (B^tis) interpcnctata. Say. — ^ Yellowish. Eyes in the living 

 insect pale greenish yellow, a black longitudinal line dividing them into two 

 equal parts. Ocelli with fuscous orbits ; a black spot on each side between 

 the eyes, sometimes indistinct from the vertex being obfuscated ; beneath 

 each antenna a black spot, a little elongated transversely, but not angulated, 

 except when viewed obliquely. Prothorax with a basal triangle, and a line 

 on each side black ; dorsum of thorax piceous. Abdomen pale obscure green- 

 ish ; a dorsal line generally wide, sometimes narrow, and the terminal ^ of 

 each joint piceous ; the last two or three joints almost entirely piceous ; the 

 dorsal line, when wide, incloses on joints 1 — 6 or 1 — 7 a lateral pale spot ; 

 venter pale obscure-greenish, with the tips of the segments darker ; anal 

 appendages pale, sometimes cloudy at tip ; setae pale greenish, the incisures 

 distinctly but narrowly fuscous, except in one immature specimen. Anterior 

 legs pale greenish yellow, with a medial and terminal band on the femora, 

 the tips of the tibiae and the tarsal incisures and tips fuscous ; four hind legs 

 somewhat paler, but similarly marked, except in a single specimen, where 

 the medial band of the femora is subobsolete, and except also that only the 

 extreme tip of the tibiae is fuscous. Wings hyaline, clouded with yellowish 

 brown on the costa, especially on the terminal one-third ; the veins fine, except 

 the three costal veins, which are coarse ; the cross-veins rather coarse, on the 

 costa very coarse ; all fuscous, except the basal two-thirds of the three costal 

 veins, which are yellowish ; on the middle of the costa, between the third 

 costal vein and that immediately behind it, is a very coarse black streak, 

 about one-half millimetre long. The hind wings are always distinctly tipped 

 with brown. 



The 9 differs from the (J as follows : The basal triangle of the prothorax 

 is generally reduced to a black dot ; the dorsum of the thorax is luteous. The 

 abdomen and venter are egg-yellow, from the included eggs showing through, 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 875 



and the dorsal and terminal line of each abdominal segment is much nar- 

 rower, the penultimate joints not differing in color from the others, and the 

 last joint being whitish ; the ventral joints, instead of being darker, appear 

 paler at tip ; the setje are whitish, almost immaculate. The costa is clouded 

 with yellowish, not darker on the tip : and the veins and cross- veins ou the 

 postcosta of the front wings, and on the whole of the hind wings, except the 

 tip, are yellowish hyaline. 



Length ^^ 7—7^ mill. ; 9 5—10 mill. Alar exp. J' 18—21 mill. ; 9 16|— 



29 mill. Seta J' 20—25 mill. ; 9 14—24 mill. Ant. leg J' 10 mill. ; Q 

 (same size) 6 mill. Eight (f, three 9 • 



The (^ subimago diflfers from the (J^ imago in the colors being paler and 

 obscurer ; the setae are immaculate and pilose ; the wings are ciliated and 

 tinged with fuscous, or in very immature s^jecimens opaque and tinged with 

 yellow, and the veins and cross-veins colored as in 9 • 



The 9 subimago diflfers from the 9 imago in the prothorax being generally 

 fasciate posteriorly with black ; the abdomen is generally widely vittate with 

 fuscous, the vitta on each joint inclosing a lateral pale spot as in the normal 

 cf ; the setae and wings are as in ^ subimago. 



Length ^ 6—10 mill. ; 9 6—10 mill. Alar exp. (J" 17—25 mill. ; 2 20— 



30 mill. Seta ^ 9— 15 mill. ; 9 7— 14 mill. Ant. leg J"' 8.} mill. ; 9 (same 

 size) 8 mill. Five (^, five 9 • Say states of the imago, that " the stemmata 

 are distant," which is true of 9 > t)ut not of rj' ; and that " the setae are im- 

 maculate," which is not generally true of (^. Again he says, that "the abdo- 

 men at tip is more or less obviously ferruginous," which is true of the ^, but 

 not of the 9 ! ^^^ ^^ some other respects his description disagrees. This 

 insect is referred by Say to the genus Bceti^, and so is Palingenia bilineata. 



Palixgenia pclchella, u. sp. — (^ Whitish. Eyes in the living insect pearly 

 whitish, changing to blackish even before death ; ocelli ferruginous, their 

 orbits often blackish ; seta fuscous at base, pale at tip ; all above behind the 

 ocelli ferrugino-piceous, except the meso- and meta-thoracic scutella, which are 

 whitish, and the base of the seventh abdominal joint, and all but the extreme 

 terminal edge of joints 1 — 6, which are whitish hyaline, w-ith a large subter- 

 minal lateral fuscous dot upon each. Setae whitish with fuscous incisures, 

 alternately narrow and wide on the basal half. Beneath all whitish, except 

 the sternum, which is light ferruginous, especially in front. Anterior legs 

 pale yellowish, with a medial and terminal band on the femora, tips of the 

 tibiae, and the tarsal incisures and tips fuscous ; four hind legs whitish, the 

 markings the same but paler, and the medial femoral band sometimes obso- 

 lete. Wings hyaline, with a pale brown cloud on the tip of the costa ; the 

 veins fine, except on the costa, the cross- veins rather coarser, especially on the 

 costa ; all fuscous, except the basal two-thirds of the costal veins, which are 

 yellowish ; the oblique cross-vein at the base of the costa is very coarse. In 

 the hind wings the postcostal veius and cross-veins are hyaline. 



The 9 differs from the ^ as follows : The vertex is whitish, vaiiecl with 

 luteous or ferruginous ; tlie thorax is whitish, varied with luteous, and the 

 sternuna and pleura whitish. The abdomen and venter are egg-yellow, except 

 where the eggs have been partially extruded ; abdominal joints 1 — 6 marked 

 as in (5^ ; 7 — 9 sometimes slightly tinged with ferruginous above, sometimes 

 immaculate. The cloud on the costal tip is paler, and the veins and cross- 

 veins of the hind wings are mostly hyaline. 



Length g" 6—7 mill. ; 9 oh—Q] mill. Alar exp. J^ 15—21 mill. ; 9 17— 

 22 mill. Seta c^ 17—21 mill. ; 9 15—16 mill. Ant. leg J> 9} mill. ; O (same 

 size) 5^ mill. Twelve f^, eight 9- 



The (^ 9 subimago, from which I have bred the imago, have the bod^- 

 colored as the imago, but paler and obscurer. Tlie setae are obscure pale 

 greenish, less distinctly annulate, and scarcely pilose, except at base. The 

 wings are subopaqiie, clouded with fuscous ; the fuscous cross-veins bordered 



1862.] 




376 rROCEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



with fuscous, and the hind edge of the wings ciliated. The hind wings are 

 paler, and tipped with fuscous. 



Length r^ 5— S mill. ; $ 6—8 mill. Alar exp. (J' 18—20 mill. ; $ 19—23 

 mill. Seta (j^ 10—13 mill. ; $ 8—13 mill. Ant. leg J' 6J mill. ; Q (same 

 size) 6 mill. Ten (^, seven 9 • 



Palingesia terminata, n. sp. — (^ When alive this insect is generally distin- 

 guishable from the above by the eyes being yellowish, not pearly whitish. 

 The dried specimen differs as follows : The color is yellowish. The parts 

 which are ferrugino-piceous in pulchella (imago), even immediately after 

 moulting, are almost always ferruginous or luteous ; the meso- and meta-tho- 

 racic scutella are sometimes tipped with white, but rarely entirely white ; the 

 lateral dots of the abdomen are always absent ; the sternum is almost aJways 

 immaculate ; the medial band on the four posterior femora is generally obso- 

 lete ; the cross-veins are scarcely coarser than the veins, giving the wings a 

 paler appearance ; and generally there is discoverable on the second costal 

 vein the same short streak found in Jlavescens, which is only seen in a single 

 (f pulchella. Two somewhat immature specimens are almost entirely whitish, 

 except that the vertex is partly ferruginous, and there is a ferruginous cloud 

 on the tip of the abdomen. 



The 9 is scarcely distinguishable from O pulchella but by the yellowish 

 color, the absence of the lateral dots of the abdomen, and the frequency of the 

 streak on the second costal vein. 



Length q"" 6^-8 mill. ; O 8— 8i mill. Alar exp. O 18—21^ mill. ; 9 23 

 —25 mill. Seta (J" 19—22 mill. ; ? 18—22 mill. Ant. leg J' 10 mill.; 2 

 (same size) 7 mill. Twelve (^, five 9 . 



The (^ 9 subimago differ from (j^ 9 imago, as in pulchella. They are 

 scarcely distinguishable from the subimago of pulchella, except by the absence 

 of the lateral abdominal dots. 



Length q"^ 'J'— 7 mill. 9 6.V— 8 mill. Alar exp. J^ 19—20 miU. 2 211—24 

 mill. Seta ff 'l2— 13 mill. 9" 15—18 mill. Ant. leg cf 9 (same size) 5^'mill. 

 Two J^ ; two 9 . 



Ephemera. 



Ephemera decora ? Walker Catal. — (J' Piceous. Seta of antennae pale 

 at tip. Sternum a little varied with luteous. Abdomen luteous, each seg- 

 ment with a broad lateral dusky vitta, emarginate on its four sides and con- 

 fluent at its four angles with the adjoining ones, towards the tip of abdomen 

 almost entirely confluent ; venter similarly marked ; anal processes and setae 

 pale obscure greenish, the latter regularly incised with fuscous, and the inter- 

 mediate one slightly the shortest. Anterior legs pale greenish, the femora, 

 base and tip of tibia and tarsal incisures and tips, fuscous ; four hind legs 

 pale greeuisli, with only the tips of the tarsi fuscous. Wings hyaline ; veins 

 and cross-veiiis moderate, subequal, fuscous ; the cross-veins irregularly bor- 

 dered with fuscous, except on the extreme tip and the posterior margin ; on the 

 basal disc of the wing, and transversely from the middle of the eosta nearly to 

 the hind margin, these borderings become confluent, so as to exhibit a spot and 

 a semi-fascia, both of them irregular in outline ; on the costa they are wider, 

 towards the tip of which there is a pale brownish cloud ; the hind wings are 

 lightly tipped with fuscous. 



The 9 has a very high and acute carina, divaricate and extending from 

 the occiput to the orbit of the posterior ocellus ; in the (J^ this carina is not 

 so obvious. The sternum is paler. The lateral abdominal vittae are not 

 nearly confluent from joint 2 to joint 6 ; and on the venter they are reduced 

 to an abbreviated line. 



Length rf 10 mill. 9 13 mill. Alar exp. ^^ 23—25 mill, 9 27 mill. Sette 

 (^ 25 mill. O 15 mill. Interm. seta (^ 20—21 miU. Q 13 mill. Ant. leg (^ 

 12 mill. 9 6 mill. Two J', one 9 . 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 377 



The 9 subimago is of a nearly uniform obscure fuscous color, the abdomen 

 with only a trace of the pale colors of the imago. The legs are obscure green- 

 ish, immaculate, the front legs a little the darkest. The three seta; are equal, 

 greenish-fuscous and pilose ; and the wings slightly tinged with fuscous and 

 ciliate behind. 



Length Q 10— 11 mill. Alar expanse $ 24— 26 mill. Setse (3) $ 10 mill. 

 Two 9 ) cT unkuowQ. This is probably E. simulans Walk. Cat. I obtained 

 all my specimens in company on the Desplaines River, near Chicago. The 

 imago differs from Dr. Hagen's diagnosis by the thorax not being " luteous " 

 above and the wings not " yellowish-hyaline." 



Ephemera flaveola, n. s. — (J' Yellowish. Vertex ferruginous ; orbits of 

 ocelli and basal joints of antennae a little dusky ; seta pale. Thorax pale 

 ferruginous. Abdomen with a lateral pale fuscous vitta on joints 3 — 7 inter- 

 rupted at the sutures ; setae not quite of equal length, whitish, with the 

 incisures regularly fuscous. Legs yellowish, the anteriors with the terminal 

 half of the femora ferruginous, and the tips of the tibiae, the first tarsal joint, 

 the incisures of the others and the tarsal tips, fuscous ; the hind legs with 

 only the tarsal tips fuscous. Wings hyaline, with a slight yellowish tint on 

 the costa, the veins and cross-veins fine, subequal, hyaline, except the 

 three costal veins and the basal cross-vein which are coarse and yellowish. 



The 9 differs only from the (J^ in the abdomen being egg-yellow wherever 

 it contains eggs ; and in the cross-veins of both wings being fuscous, except 

 at the tip and along the posterior margin. 



Length c? 7|— 9'.^ mill. 9 9—10.1 mill. Alar exp. J' 17—19 mill. 9 19— 

 20 mill. Seta; J' 20 mill. 9 12 mill. Interm. seta ^ 14 mill. 9 10 mill. 

 Ant. leg (5^ 8^ mill. 9 (same size) 6 mill. Four (J', three 9 • 



The (^ 9 subimago differ from (J^ 9 imago only in the setse being subequal, 

 obscure pale greenish and pilose, and in the wings being subopaque, tinged 

 with dusky, and ciliated behind ; in one (J^, but not in 9 > the veins and 

 cross-veins are slightly dusky. 



Length J' 7— 9" mill. 9 8 J mill. Alar exp. ^ 19—20 mill. 9 20 mill. 

 Setae (3) J' 9—12 mill. 9 12 mill. Two (^, one 9 . 



Ephemekella, new genus (= Leptophlebia, Westw. ?) 



Three long and equal caudal setae ; wings four, hind wings wide with several 

 veins ; transverse veins rather numerous, absent, except the basal cross-vein, 

 on the basal two-thirds of the costa of front wing, and the hind margin of both 

 wings, where there ai-e many short, isolated veinlets ; eyes (^ simple, con- 

 tiguous ; ocelli three, nearly transverse, contiguous (J^, somewhat remote 9 • 

 First tarsal joint indistinct, except in anterior (J^ tarsus ; more than one-half 

 as long as joint 2, except in anterior (^ tarsus where it is less than one-fourth 

 as long ; joints 2 — 4 subequal in all the (^ 9 l^gs, 4 rather the shortest. 



Ephemekella excrucians, n. sp. — (^' Yellowish. Eyes in the living insect 

 egg-yellow on their upper three-fourths, pale fuscous on their lower one- 

 fourth ; vertex and antennae ferruginous ; seta and orbits of ocelli fuscous. 

 Dorsum of thorax and of abdomen ferruginous, the latter sometimes almost 

 piceous ; setae whitish, with regular fuscous incisures, becoming indistinct at 

 tip. Legs all pale yellow, with the tips of all the tarsi and in the anterior 

 legs the first tarsal joint and the tarsal incisures, cloudy. Wings hyaline, with 

 a slight yellowish tinge on the costa ; veins moderate, cross-veins fine except 

 on the costal tip, all hyaline. 



The 9 differs from the (^ in the veins on the anterior part of the wing 

 being slightlv tinged with fuscous. 



Length 0" 5.1— 7i miU. ; 9 5.V— 6] mill. Exp. c^ 14.]— 18 mill. ; 9 15— 

 19 mill. Setae q^ 11—13 mill. 9" 10— 12^ miU. Ant. leg J' 7 mill. 9 (same 

 size) ^ mill. Twelve (j^, five 9 • 

 18(52.] 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The (^ 9 subimago differ only in the usual manner from the imago. One 

 C?. one O. 



EpHEMERELLA coNsiMiLis, u. s. — ^ Differs from the preceding chiefly in the 

 great elongation and narrowness of the mesotliorax, its anterior lobe or prse- 

 scutiim being half as long again as wide, and the whole mesothorax being four 

 or five times as long as wide ; whereas in excrucians the anterior lobe is 

 scarcely longer than wide, and the whole mesothorax is scarcely three times 

 as long as wide. The sternum is ferruginous, and the legs are immaculate, 

 except the tips of anterior tibia and the first tarsal joint, which are fuscous. 



Length ,J^ 5 mill. Alar exp. (J" 14 mill. Seta r^ about 5 mill. One rj', which 

 has both the left and the intermediate seta remaining ; $ , unknown. 



B^TiscA. New Genus. 



Wings four ; front wings with numerous cross-veins ; costal cross-veins, 

 except the basal one and those on the terminal one-third of costa, scarcely 

 visible, entirely absent on the middle of the costa ; terminal veinlets distinct, 

 not branching from the veins, but partly connected with them by cross-veins. 

 Hind wings wide, with numerous veins, and except towards the tip with 

 numerous cross-veins ; tip with many isolated veinlets. Eyes (J' contiguous, 

 simple. Body very robust ; middle piece of prosternum deeply and very 

 widely emarginate behind ; anterior mesothoracic lobe not nearly half as long 

 as wide, and transversely truncate ; mesothoracic scutel very large, horizon- 

 tally extended so as to attain the tip of the first abdominal joint. Fifth 

 abdominal joint twice as long as any of the others, which are subequal. 

 Setae three, exterior ones short, middle one rudimental, distinct, exarticulate. 

 Tarsal structure as in B(Btis subgenus B. 



BiETiscA (BiETis) OBESA, Say. — Undescribed imago. — (^ Ferruginous-piceous. 

 Each side of the epistoma with a divergent basal elliptical carina, confluent at 

 its base witli the central carina ; antennae ferruginous, seta generally pale, 

 sometimes fuscous at base. Sternum paler behind, especially the space 

 between the posterior coxte. Abdomen paler, sometimes quite pale, with the 

 tips of the joints whitish ; anal processes pale, sometimes fuscous at tip ; set« 

 whitish, with regular fuscous incisures at base, which generally disappear 

 towards the tip ; intermediate seta ferruginous, about half a millimeter long. 

 Legs pale greenish-yellow, anterior legs with the knees and the tarsal inci- 

 sures and tips slightly fuscous ; hind legs with only the tarsal tips cloudy. 

 Wings hyaline, the veins fine, except the three costal veins which are rather 

 coarse ; the cross-veins so fine as to be invisible to the naked eye except on 

 the costal tip, where they are somewhat coarser, and except also the oblique 

 basal cross-vein, which is particularly coarse ; costal veins yellowish, the 

 the third vein piceous at its extreme base ; a few of the principal veins 

 slightly tinged with fuscous, the rest, as well as the cross-veins, hyaline. 



The 9 only difi'ers from (^ in the vertex being varied with ferruginous. 



Length,^ 7— 8 mill. ; 9 G— S mill. Alar exp. ^^ 20— 22 mill. ; 9 22—2-1 

 mill. Seta (^ 6—7 mill. ; 9 6—7 mill. Aat. leg ^ Si mill. ; 9 (same size,) 

 4 mill. Twenty J^, ten 9. 



The subimago, which aloae was known to Say, and from which I have ob- 

 tained the imago, difi'ers from the imago in the colors being darker and obscu- 

 rer, and in the wings being " dark-brown, with numerous small, transverse, 

 hyaline [spots or abbreviated lines, and a large hyaline,*] very oblique, semi- 

 fascia about the middle on the anal haif.'' Taere is also anotber large, oblique 

 hyaline semifascia at the costal tip, and, as Say adds, the hind wings, except at 

 tip, have numerous transverse, abbreviated, hyaline lines. The setae are ob- 

 scure green, with fuscous incisures. One specimen, captured a month before 



* The words included in brackets [ ] are omitted in the reprint of Say's Works. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



the main brood appeared, has the "hyaline part of the wings much extended, 

 their brown color paler, and the setas pale. 



Length S 7—9 mill. Alar. exp. 2 22—25. Seta O 4— 5 mill. Four C; J* 

 unknown. 



Cloe. 



§§ Cloe. Sqjsgenus A. Wings four, cross-veins rather numerous, 50 — 60 in 

 number. Hind wings with only two long veins and one short one. 



Clob fekrugikea, n. sp. — (^ Ferruginous. Eyes in the living insect double, 



the superior ones peduncled or contracted at their base, and separated above 

 by a fissure; ocelli peduncled, the two hind ones overhung by the upper eyes, 

 so as to be entirely concealed by the shrunken eye in the dried specimen ; an- 

 tennae with the two basal joints long, each a little fuscous at tip ; setae whitish 

 at base, fuscous at tip. in one instance vice versa. Anterior raesothoracic lobe 

 subtruncate, the corners rounded : sternum pale, generally freckled with reddish- 

 brown. Abdomen densely freckled with reddish-brown, occasionally almost 

 piceous ; venter pale reddish-white, not so much freckled ; anal processes and 

 setae whitish. Legs pale-yellowish, with the tips of the tibiae, the tarsal inci- 

 sures and tips, and in the anterior legs the first tarsal joint, fuscous. Wings 

 hyaline, a little yellowish on the ccsta ; veins and cross-veins moderate, sube- 

 qual, hyaline : the costal veins yellowish, and a few of the other veins generally 

 tinged with fuscous ; a pair of isolated veinlets between the tips of each pair of 

 veins. Hind winps with numerous cross-veins on the two long veins. 



Length J'' 7^ — ^ mill. Exp. (^' 15 — 18 mill. Seta J"' 15 — 17 mill. Five 

 (^' ; 9 unknown. 



The subimago. from which I have bred the imago, is darker and obacurer ; 

 the setae scarcely pilose except at base; the wings fumose, the cross-veins 

 whitish-hyaline, and bordered with whitish-hyaline, and the postcosta pale: 

 the costal veins and the base of some of the other veins are fuscous, and the 

 costa is fuscous. Hind wings pale. All four wings with dense and long dil- 

 ations behind. 



Length 6J mill. Alar exp. 2 17^ mill. Seta 2 9 mill. One $ : like 

 ^, bred from. In this species the first tarsal joint is entirely obsolete in the 

 four hind legs,bnt distinct in the ant. r^ legs, where it is about a quarter as long 

 as joint two, and also in ant. legs of O subimago, wheje it is about half as 

 long. In two imagos and one subimago, a very small intermediate seta was 

 visible in the recent insect, which disappears in the dried specimen. 



§^ Cloe. Subgenus B — Four wings ; cross-veins sparse, about 14 — IS in num- 

 ber. Hiud wings with only two veins. 



Cloe fluctuaxs, n. sp. — O Brownish white. Vertex sometimes ferruginous, 

 and with a double longitudinal carina ; basal joints of antennae long : seta dusky, 

 sometimes pale at base. Thorax with a double, light-brown vitta, confluent 

 behind. Abdomen above and below generally brownish-white, sometimes 

 varied with brown ; in two specimens pale-brown, with the sixth segment brown 

 above and beneath ; seta whitish. Legs whitish, with the tips of tarsi cloudy. 

 Wings hyaline, iridescent ; veins rather coarse towards their origin, cross-veins 

 fine; the veins generally brown, and occasionally edged with brown towards 

 their origin, towards the postcosta hyaline; the cross-veins always hyaline; 

 space between the first and second vein of the costa hyaline, with 15 — 18 small, 

 brown spots on its anterior edge, a few of them confluent ; behind the second 

 vein a light brown vitta, containing about fourteen round hyaline spots — some 

 of them confluent before or behind with the hyaline part of the wing — with its 

 posterior edge variable and irregular, sometimes presenting six or seven large 

 obtuse teeth. Isolated veinlets, mostly single. Hind wings, with many cross- 

 veins. 



Length 2 6—7 mill. Alar exp. O 13.J — 17 mill. Seta Q lOj— 12 mill. 



1862.] 




380 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Seven 9 J c? unknown. Tarsi as mferruginea. Differs from C. undata, Pictet, 

 in the setas not being annulated, in the costal margin being umber brown, not 

 fuscous, and in there being no fuscous cloud on the disk and posterior margin 

 of the front wing. 



Cloe vnicoloe? Hagen. — ^ Obscure piceous. Eyes shrivelled, but appa- 

 rently double; seta of anteunffi fuscous. Abdominal seta pale, cloudy at tip. 

 Legs all pale yellowish ; tips of tarsi cloudy. Wings hyaline, veins moderate, 

 cross-veins fine, the former sometimes slightly dusky, the latter hyaline ; iso- 

 lated veinlets in pairs. In the hind wings the space between the two veins is 

 Bubopaque, and there are no cross-veins. 



On the vertex 9 there is a longitudinal dilated stria ; the abdomen is bright 

 ferruginous, with the incisures in the living insect pale, and a pale, lateral spot 

 on each segment. 



Length ^ 2J mill ; 9 5 mill. Alar exp. ^ 9 mill ; 9 12—13 mill. Seta J> 

 5 mill; 9 ^ mill. One (J^, three 9- The diagnosis ofunicolor, Hagen, is very 

 brief. 



Cloe viceja? Hagen. — r^ Piceous. Eyes in the living insec', as in C.ferrugi- 

 nea, but the lower eye is not attached laterally to the upper eye, as in all other 

 species with double eyes known to me, but at its posterior corner; seta of 

 antennae fuscous, pale at tip. Joints of abdomen whitish hyaline, with a 

 lateral dot on each, except the four last, which are piceous ; venter pale hya- 

 line, the four last joints opaque whitish ; setae whitish, the incisures often 

 fuscous towards the base. Legs pale, except the anterior femur, which is some- 

 times pale ferruginous ; tips of tarsi cloudy. Wings hyaline iridescent; veins 

 moderate, cross-veins very fine, all hyaline ; isolated veinlets in pairs. In the 

 hind wings the space between the two veins is subopaque, and there are no 

 cross-veins. 



The 9 differs in the head, thorax, sternum and abdomen being ferrugino- 

 piceous, sometimes ferruginous ; the venter is reddish white. The anterior fe- 

 mur is always immaculate. 



Length (^ 4—5 mill. ; 9 3§— 5| mill. Alar exp. J* 9—11 mill. ; 9 9—12 

 mill. Seta (5^ 7^ — 10 mill. ; 9 5 — 9 mill. Seven (5^, sixteen 9 • Very near j9o- 

 sticata, Say, but differs in size, and in the wings not being white. 



What, I have no doubt, is the subiraago of the above, (see below apud. C. 

 dubia,) differs in the colors being obscurer, and the (^ abdomen dull-whitish- 

 hyaline at base, sometimes obscure greenish. Tarsi sometimes dusky. Wings 

 fumose, the veins rather coarse and dusky, the cross-veins the color of the wing. 

 The cilia are close-set. and about one-half millimetre long. At first sight very 

 like B. debilis, subimago. 



Length J^ 3—3^- mill.; 9 3^ mill. Alar exp. ^^ 11 mill.; 9 8^—14 mill. 

 Seta (^ 5 mill. ; 9 ^ mill. The (^ 9 anterior tarsi are short and subequal. Two 

 (J^, three 9- 



^^Cloe. Subgenus C. — Two wings; cross veins sparse, about 14 — 18 in 

 number. 



Cloe dubia, n. sp.? — Differs from the preceding in size, and in the total ab- 

 sence of hind wings. The lateral abdominal dots (J^ have generally a hyaline 

 centre, and the (^ eyes are normal. 



The 9 differs from the 9 of vicina in the head, thorax, sternum and abdo- 

 men being pale ferruginous, the head and abdomen occasionally obfuscated. 

 The ventf r is pale yellowish or greenish ; and the anterior femora are always 

 more or less ferruginous. 



Length q^' 2^—4 mill. ; 9 2^ — 3 mill. Alar exp. J^ 8—10^ mill. ; 9 8—10} 

 mill. Seta J* 4J— 5.V mill.; 9 3— 4| mill. Nine J*, fourteen 9. 



The subimago, from which I have bred numerous imagos, differs from the 

 imago precisely as that of the preceding. The dimensions are similar to those 

 of the imago. Nine (^, ten 9- -^s Dr. Hagen has not stated whether his vi- 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



cina has anj' hind wings or not, it is doubtful whether that species be identical 

 with dulia or with the preceding. 



Cloe mesdax, n. sp. — (^ Pale ferruginous. Seta of antennas fuscous, pale at 

 tip. Sternum and venter pale greenish hyaline, the latter opaque at tip. Legs 

 pale, tips of tarsi cloudy. Wings hyaline, veins moderate, cross-veins fine, all 

 hyaline; isolated veinlets all single. 



The 9 has sometimes the thorax tinged with green, and is always paler 

 above. 



Length J^ 4 mill. ; 9 4 — 5 mill. Alar exp. (^ 14 mill. ; 2 14 mill. Seta 

 (^ deficient; 9 9 miH- 0°^ |^; four 9 



The (^ subimago differs in being of a uniform very pale ferruginous color. 

 The abdominal seta is pale : and the legs are immaculate. The wings are some- 

 what opaque, and slightly tinged with dusky, as well as their veins and cross- 

 veins, and the cilia are long and dense. In the living insect the lower eyes are 

 blackish, and the upper eyes pale, and there is no intermediate seta visible. 



Length J* 4 mill. Alar exp. J^ I3J mill. Setae J* 8 milL One J'; 9 un- 

 known. This species differs from all the preceding, except undaia, iu the ter- 

 minal veinlets being single, and not in pairs. Westwood formed the species 

 having the terminal veinlets in pairs, and hind wings with only two veins, into 

 the genus BrachyphUbia, which, however, he does not recognise in bia Synopsis. 

 His definition would include C. vkina and C. unieolor, but not C. nndata. (Intr 

 11., p. 25.) 



C^xis. 



C^Nis HILARI3, Say, (= arnica^ Eagen ?) — I possess a single (^' subimago, 

 which agrees with Dr. H^gen's diagnosis of aniica, except that the prothorax is 

 not banded with black like the first of his two specimens. Say states ihat the 

 thoracic bands of his species are also sometimes obsolete. Dr. Hagen sao'o'ests 

 that Say's species and his are identical, and it is probably the case, as Say men- 

 tions the wings being " ample," and the abdomen being " depressed," which 

 last is an unusual character in Ephemerina, and is conspicuous in my specimen. 

 The basal breadth of the wings is to their length as two to three, and they are 

 finely, but not densely, ciliate, and very slightly tinged with fuscous. The 

 cross-veins are only four or five, very fine and scarcely perceptible, and there 

 are no terminal veinlets. 



Length (^ 3 mill. Alar exp. J* 8|- mill. Setae deficient, except a few joints 

 of each. 



ODONATA AGRIONINA. 



N. B. — It is well known that in the three tribes of Odonata — Agrionina 

 ^schnina and Libellulina, with the exception of the subtribe (jomphina 

 where the colors are generally constant — the ground colors of the body often 

 change much in drying, especially the greens and the blues, though not the 

 yellows; that tbey differ much in individuals of different degrees of maturity; 

 that tbey are often quite different in the two sexes, the (^ frequently affecting 

 blue and the 9 green,* except in Agrion Ramburii, where it is exactly the re- 



* In Anax Junius ihe ground color of the abdomen of the living cf, except the first and 

 a small portion of the second segment which are grass green in both sexes as well as the 

 thorax, is invariably a vivid ultramarine blue; in the living ? it is invariably obscure pale 

 purple or lilac. Yet Say describes boih sexes, of this very common insect, as of the 

 aame color. iEschna constricta and clepnydra follow invariably the general rule in the 

 color of the abdomen only, cT blue, 9 green, thorax green J' 9. In Libellulina I have 

 observed in the following species that when the cf J first appear they are colored ex- 

 actly liRe the 9, but that they afterwards assume, sometimes over their entire bodies a 

 milky blue tint, {hleu, naupoudrc,) which, as we learn from a memoir by M. Schelver 

 quoted to me by Dr- Hagen. is occasioned by the secretion of a kind of oil soluble in 

 ether and alcohol : — Plathemis trimaculata. Lib luctnosa. Lib. pulcheUa, Me.solhemis lon- 

 fripennis and Mes. simplicicoUis. In Libellulina this oil, which is occasionally seen in 9 in 

 small quantities, seems to be secreted under the external integument; in Agrionina on 

 its surface, when it is known as pruinoseness and may be washed off. 



1862.] 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



verse ; and that in Agrioniaa, even in the same sex, and at the same stage of 

 maturity, and while the insect is still alive, a very great variation of color is 

 often observable. For example, many adult 9 of Agr. Ramburii occur, that 

 are orange instead of blue. In Agrioniaa the dark markings also are often 

 variable in the same sex, and differ most wonderfully in the two sexes. Oa the 

 contrary, the coloring of the legs, as is generally the case in most families of 

 Insecta is in Agrionina, except in very immature individuals, remarkably con- 

 stant in the same species, does not, so far as my experience extends, vary iu the 

 sexes, and varies very considerably in different species, while on the other hand 

 it does not fade or change materially iu drying. It fulfils, therefore, if this be 

 correct all the conditions of a good specific character. Hence, it has occurred 

 to me. that a little more precision miglu be advantageously introduced, in this 

 tribe, into the nomenclature of the colorization of the leg, and more particu- 

 larly the femur. Just as in Oomphina, on each side of the dorsuji of the thorax 

 there exist three normal dark stripes — the dorsal, the antehumeral and the 



humeral each of which has its locus definitely ascertained; so in the femur of 



Aorionina there exist three normal dark vittae, the locus of which is susceptible 

 of'beinc accurately determined. That this is so, any one may convince himself 

 by comparing Lestes unguiculala, or some other species which has all the three 

 normal femoral vittae coexisting, with other species of Lestes or Agrion which 

 have a smaller number of femoral vittae. He will find that the difiFerence be- 

 tween them is merely that one or more vittae are obsolete, and that those vilt.Te 

 which are not obsolete retain the same invariable locus. 



Supposing the leg, with the knee slightly bent, to be extended horizontally 

 at right angles to the body, and in such a position that the tibia and femur 

 shall both lie in the same vertical plane, the back of the insect being of course 

 supposed to be uppermost ; I call that vitta whose locus lies underneath, and 

 does not extend beyond the two lateral rows of spines, which are always in 

 Agrionina present on the inferior surface, '-the inferior vitta."' This has 

 generally by authors been called "the interior." The vitta whose /ocus lies 

 above with its two edges equi-distant from the two rows of spines beneath, I 

 call "the superior vitta." And the vitta, whose locas is on the anterior side 

 of the femur, betwixt the "inferior" and the "superior," I call "the anterior 

 vitta." Strictly speaking, these are, I believe, all the vittae which exist on 

 the odonatous femur ; and there is no such thing in Nature as a posterior black 

 vitta on the femora of an Odonate. But just as, for convenience sake, M. de 

 Selys sometimes considers the ground-color of the thorax of Gomnhus to be 

 black and enumerates its i/elloiv stripes,* which of course changes the locus of 

 every stripe, the so-called yellow stripes occupying the intervals between the 

 normal black ones ; so it is sometimes convenient, when the inferior, anterior, 

 and superior vittse are all coutiuent, leaving only the posterior part of the 

 femur pale, to consider the femur as being black with a posterior pah vitta. 

 Dr. Ha^en has remarked, that the true ground-color of the thorax in Gomphun 

 is pale,°because some species occur with the thorax all pale, and none with the 

 thorax' all black ; and for this reason he seems to object to M. de Selys's 

 nomenclature. There is a wide difterence, however, between these two cases. 

 The imaginary pale vittse on the thorax of Gomphus have a different locus from 

 the normal black vittffi ; while the imaginary posterior pale vitta on the femur 

 of Agrion has precisely the same locus as a normal posterior dark vitta would 

 have, supposing such a vitta to be possible. 



The "anterior" and "superior" vittae are confounded together by authors 

 under the name of "exterior;" and sometimes, when there is a pale "pos- 

 terior" vitta, the femur is said to be " pale below"— thus giving rise to a great 

 deal of confusion between the true " inferior" and the "posterior" vitta. In 

 many species the inferior and the anterior are confluent ; and it is very fre- 



* See the synoptical tables opposite page 14 of the " Monogr. des Go mphines." 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



quently the case that the anterior femora possess a conflaent iiifprior and 

 anterior, while the other four femora have merely an inferior. Further varia- 

 tions between different species are caused by the vitt;e being abbreviated. As 

 a general rule, in Agrionina, each pair of legs is darker than the pair imme- 

 diately behind them, when there is any difference ; but in vEschnina and 

 Libellulina the contrary rule seems to prevail. The colorization of the tibiae 

 and tarsi, as compared with that of the femora, is simple ; they have merely 

 an inferior vitta, whose locus is rather on the anterior row of spines, and a 

 superior vitta. 



Why, if every separate species of Gompkus and Agrion had been separately 

 created, the great Author of Nature should have thus restricted himself to 

 working upon one pattern only — a phenomenon which has been noticed in 

 many other families of insects, as, for example, in Cicindelidae. by my friend, 

 Dr. J. L. Le Conte — is to me an insoluble problem. Why do we never find 

 odonates with their legs fasciate, instead of vittate ? On Mr. Darwin's 

 theory, the reason becomes at once apparent. In Macro'jomphus ? spiniceps 

 mihi I have recorded a remarkable apparent deviation from the unity of color- 

 ization elsewhere observable in the thorax of Gomphus ; but I am convinced 

 it is only apparent. 



Another point in which I have deviated from the nomenclature of Dr. Hagr-n 

 and M. Selys is in some of the pieces of the head. The front of the odonatous 

 head — or, as Say calls it, in cesckna unAlibellula, "the frontal vesicle," as dis- 

 tinguished from " the vertical vesicle" — is divided into two subequal parts by 

 a transverse suture or stria, below which comes another shorter and generally 

 curvilinear transverse suture, which separates what agreeably to the analogy 

 of other orders I call the epistoma, it being the piece immediately overlying 

 the labrum, with which it is connected by a more or less membranous suture. 

 The authors of the Mmographie call this last piece "the rhinarium," and the 

 lower part of what I consider to be the front they call " the nasus," or some- 

 times "the epistoma," confining the term "front" to that part of Say's 

 "frontal vesicle" which lies above their "nasus." I am by no means certain 

 but what their "nasus" and "rhinarium," taken together, are the analogues 

 of what in other orders is called the epistoma; but their "nasus" by itself 

 can scarcely be so. 



Calopteryx maculata, Beauvois. (North and South Illinois.) 



Hkt.erixa rupinsulensis, n. sp. — (^ Black, with a slight hras-sy tinge. Head 

 hairy, pale brown in front ot a transverse line passing behind the base of the 

 antennse ; labrum with a lateral black tubercle ; mandibles and the tip of the 

 labium brown-black ; all beneath pale-brown ; post-occipital tubercles promi- 

 nent, acute ; antennre with their lirst and second joints pale brown ; and the 

 third, which is longer than the first and second put together, black ; tlie seta, 

 which is shorter than the third joint, black. Thorax hairy; prothorax with 

 a large triangular posterior lobe ; dorsum of thorax with a brown lateral 

 strii>e, becoming much wider inside on its terminal half; pleura pale 

 brown, the anterior half of its anterior segment with an abbreviated black 

 stripe pointed above, the posterior half with a rather narrower one, abbre- 

 viated above and below, not attaining the spiracle which is black ; a short 

 black line above in the suture between the two segments ; the posterior seg- 

 ment with a much abbreviated black stripe, the narrowest of the three ; 

 sternum pale brown. Abdomen with an obscure yellowish lateral stripe, 

 fading out at the end of the third segment ; joints 1 — 2 hairy, the two or three 

 terminal joints pubescent under the lens ; joint 2 brown on its basal two- 

 thirds ; 2 — 7 with an obscure yellowish basal aunulus, more obvious on 3 — 5 ; 

 a carina on the tip of joint 10, terminating in a spine, with a small si>ine on 

 each side ; joints S — 10 each one-third shorter than the preceding joint ; venter 

 blacli, with a polished longitudinal tubercle on the tip of the last segment, 

 immediately behind the insertion of each lower appendage. Superior ap- 

 1862.] 




384 PR0CEEDI^7GS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



pendages black, pubescent under the lens, as long as the penultimate albdomi- 

 nal joint, regularly curved inwards and downwards from their middle, robust, 

 with no tubercle above at their base, obtuse at their tips, with a broad lamina 

 beneath, semiovally emarginate in its middle, which commences in an oblique 

 truncation at their base and terminates in a square truncstion at three quar- 

 ters of the distance to their tips, the tip of the lamina being as wide as any 

 part of it ; about five small acute spines outside opposite the tip of the lamina ; 

 no appearance of any pencil of hairs at the base of the lamina, other than the 

 general pubescence of the whole appendage. Inferior appendages, about one- 

 third the length of the superiors, black, slender, cyliudrica.l, with a basal 

 enlargement, curving inwards and upwards so as to touch at their tips, trun- 

 cate at tip, and attaining the middle of the lamina of the superior ones. Legs 

 black trochanters and coxje pale brown ; femora brown infariorly and poste- 

 riorly ; tibise on their basal half brown, except inferiorly. Wings hyaline, not 

 glittering ; j^terostigma small, pale brown, twice as long as wide, surmounting 

 one and three-quarters cells before, one and a half cells behind ; anterior 

 wings with a pale brown, semi-transparent, basal spot, commencing abruptly 

 on the posterior edge of the median space, not extending beyond the arc, 

 except very obscurely along the median space, and gradually fading away on 

 the longitudinal centre of the basal space ; posterior wings with a similar spot 

 commencing similarly, extending about two cross-veins beyond the arc with 

 an obscure narrow prolongation along the median vein, and fading away 

 gradually between the costal and sub-costal veins ; at their extreme tip a very 

 faint brown cloud, scarcely perceptible ; veins and cross-veins of all four wings 

 black, except those iu the region covered by the basal spots, and the median 

 vein nearly as far as the nodus, which are pale brown ; all the brown cross- 

 veins behind the median vein in both wings distinctly but narrowly bordered 

 with sub-hyaline. Anterior wing with antecubitals 23 — 24, postcubitals 31. 

 Posterior wing with antecubitals 22 — 23, postcubitals 28 — 30. 



Length of body (^ 48 mill. Alar exp. (^ 59 mill. Length abdomen (J' 38 

 mill. ; "medial breadth | mill. Length of superior pterostigma nearly 1 mill. ; 

 of inferior ft mill. The quadrangle has 4 — 6 cross-veins ; the basal space 4 — 

 5. The postcostal space of the anterior wing has at least three irregular ranks 

 of cells, except at its base. Described from one very mature (^ ; ^ unknown. 



Of the twenty-seven described species of Hetjerina, not a single one, except 

 when quite immature, has, like this species, the basal spot of the (^ anterior 

 wings, other than some shade of sanguineous. Several of them have the 

 basal spot of the (^ posterior wings brown {sangulnea, rosea, mortua, macropus 

 and tricolor) ; and eight others have it either reddish brown or some mixed 

 color (hebe, auripennis, caja, carnifex, proxima, simplex (raninve), cruentata and 

 leesa). It is stated, as one of the characters of the siibgenus Hetcerhia, that 

 all the four wings of the (^ have a red basal spot. (Monographic des Caloptery- 

 qines p. 97.) Now that a species has occurred with no red basal spot at all 

 on any of its wings, it will probably be necessary to modify the subgeneric 

 definition. 



Another point in which our insect differs from all other known Hetcerince, is 

 that the basal spot of the anterior (^ wing starts from the postcostal vein, 

 leaving the entire postcostal space hyaline. In all the twenty-seven described 

 species, this spot, for at least half its length, touches the posterior margin ; 

 and in Carnifex, proxima, cruentata, vulnerata, moribunda and occisa it touches it 

 for its entire length. 



There is a remarkable similarity between rupinsulensis and tricolor, — a rare 

 species which occurs in the United States, — but they are sufficiently distin- 

 guished, not only by the above points, but by tricolor being slightly more 

 robust than Aviericana, whereas, rupinsulensis is decidedly slenderer on placing 

 the two side by side ; by the superior J> anal uppendtxges of rupinsulensis being 

 unlike those of tricolor, as figured and described in the " Monographie Calopt.,'' 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 385 



(plate xii. fig. 5,) while thev bear a striking resemblance to those of sanguinea, 

 — a South American species, (figured plate x. fig. 6,) — and, besides several 

 minor points of difference, by the cross-veins in the basal spots being bordered 

 with subhyaline, — a peculiarity which is not noticed as occurring in any other 

 species. No Betcerina has hitherto, according to Dr. Hagen, been found in a 

 high;^r latitude, either North or South, than 40^. Rock Island lies in afeout 

 41° 30''. ■ 



Lestes rectaxgularis. Say ! L. csguicclata, Hagen ! L. hauata, Hagen. 

 L. FORCiPATA, Rambur. 



Lestes eurina ? Say. — [Unknown to Dr. Hagen.] — rj* Dark metallic green. 

 Head brown black, varied anteriorly with brown; epistoma obscure greenish ; 

 labram obscure greenish on its terminal margin, dusky at base, except a small 

 obscure greenish triangle on its posterior margin; tips of mandibles brown 

 black: beneath pale greenish. Dorsum of thorax rather pale brown, with a 

 fuscous, sublateral, slightly abbreviated vitta ; pleura deep bright yellow, the 

 anterior segment with a wide brown stripe in front, sending off a narrow 

 branch behind and below to the intermediate coxae, and widened behind and 

 above by two successive sudden dilatations so as to cover the entire width of 

 the segment beneath the wings ; the posterior segment with a large inferior 

 brown, elongate-triangular spot, its upper side parallel with the wings, and 

 its apex reaching the back of the posterior coxae ; sternum pale. Abdomen 

 .with a blue reflection on joints 2 — 4, the base and sides of joint 1, and sides of 

 2, yellowish, 2 — 7 with a narrow yellowish basal band, interrupted above and 

 widening below, subobsolete in 6 — 7 ; joint 10 triangularly emarginate above 

 at tip, the sides of the emargination carinate, yellowish beneath, and with an 

 obscure yellowish lateral basal triangle ; the tips of segments 1 — 8 black, 

 more obviously so beneath, and especially towards the tip of the abdomen. 

 Superior appendages piceous, nearly as long as the penultimate joint of the 

 abdomen, with their tips a little dilated and rounded, regularly curved from 

 their middle inwards and downwards, with ten or twelve small spines on their 

 exterior middle, a long acute spine pointing backwards on their intern«l base, 

 and on their internal middle a short broad tooth, truncate, with four very 

 small spines on it. Inferior appendages short, yellowish, about one-tliird the 

 length of the superiors, conical, obtuse, directed obliquely upwards and 

 slightly curved inwards at tip. Legs black, coxae and trochanters pale, an- 

 terior femora with a short basal inferior and superior yellowish vitta, both of 

 which become wider and longer on the intermediate and still more so on the 

 posterior femora; tibise all with an anterior yellowish vitta. Wings uniformly 

 flavescent, no darker on costa ; veins and cross-veins blnck; pterostigma 

 brown, surmounting four cells before, three and a half behind. Postcubitals 

 15—16. 



Length (^ 50 mill. Alar expanse (^ 64 mill. Length of abdomen (^ 41 milL 

 Pterostigma 2^ mill. One (^ specimen, somewhat immature ; 9 unknown. 



'There is no other described species of North American Lestes which has the 

 wings entirely flavescent, and on this account, and because the coloration of 

 the legs and the structure of the anal appendages agree will Say's brief de- 

 scription, it may probably be the true Eiirina, Say, though he describes the 

 dorsum of the thorax as having "a yellow vitta, behind bifid and divaricated." 

 The markings of the thorax are so variable in Agrionina that, by themselves, 

 they cannot be depended on to separate two species otherwise alike. 



Lestes in^squalis, n. sp.— (5^ Dark metallic green. Head with the region 

 of the ocelli almost black ; epistoma pale brown ; tips of the labrum and of 

 the mandibles brown black; the rest of the mouth and all beneath yellowish ; 

 antennae black, first and second joints yellowish at tip. Dorsum of thorax 

 livid black, with a slight greenish reflection; a medial and lateral yellowish 

 line ; pleura yellowish, with a broad, livid black stripe in front, widened under 



1862.] 26 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the wings; sternum yellowish. Abdomen towards the base with a blaish re- 

 flection ; the basal half of joint 1 and a narrow interrupted basal band on 2 

 to about 6, and also on 10, yellowish; a lateral yellowish vitta obsolete from 

 the middle of joint 5 to the tip of joint 8 ; joint 10 deeply emarginate at tip, 

 and with a yellowish terminal band. Superior appendages a little longer than 

 the last abdominal joint, regularly tapering to their tips inside and outside, 

 curved from their middle inwards and downwards, yellowish at base, brown- 

 black at tip, with seven or eight small black spines externally towards their 

 tip ; at their internal base is an acute spine pointing backwards, immediately 

 behind which is a narrow but deep emargination, followed by a fine serration 

 and a very small obtuse tooth, the tooth placed at two-thirds the distance to 

 their tip. Inferior appendages extending one-third of a millimetre beyond 

 the superiors, yellowish and of a flattened conical shape at base, brown-black, 

 slender and cylindrical at tip, straight till they attain the tips of the superiors, 

 when they suddenly curve inwards and upwards, their tips obtuse and approxi- 

 mate ; their internal edge, at about one-fourth the distance to their tips, is 

 suddenly contracted, making a conspicuous rectangular tooth. Legs yellowish, 

 femora with an inferior, anterior and superior black vitta ; tibiae with an in- 

 ferior black vitta, on the anterior tibiae an anterior one also confluent with the 

 inferior ; tarsi black. Wings hyaline ; veins and cross-veins black ; pterosligma 

 pale brown, surmounting 2^ — 3 cells. Postcubitals 16. 



The 9 differs from (^' only in the lateral abdominal vitta being uninter- 

 rupted, and in the two last abdominal joints being varied with yellowish, the 

 penultimate containing two small, round, discal spots, transversely placed. 

 The superior 9 appendages are elongate-conical and acute, three-quarters the 

 length of the last abdominal joint; the inferiors a little shorter, conical, ob- 

 tuse and directed upwards; and the vulvar laminae are externally serrate under 

 the lens. Postcubitals 15. 



Length J> 52 mill. ; 9 51 mill. Alar expanse (^ 60 mill. ; 9 62 mill. Abd. 

 1^ 42 mill. ; 9 "^^ "'^^'- Pterostigma ,^ 9 -^ "^i^^- Differs from all described 

 North American species in the great length of the inferior (J' appendages, and 

 from all but grandis and Eurina? in having 15 — 16 postcubitals. It agrees 

 yfiih. forcipata, Rambur, in having three distinct femoral vittae. 



Agrion IRENE, Hagen. A Ramborii, Selys. A. kxsulans, Hagen, (R. I. and 

 Chicago.) A. pctridum, Hagen. A. apicalk. Say, (= immundum, Eagtn.) 

 A. CIVILE, Hagen. 



j^^QRioN ', Hagen MSS., n. sp. — (^ Black, with a slight brassy tinge. 



Head and thorax villous. Head with two transversely elongated occipital spots, 

 a broad band between the antennap, the epistoma, and also the labrum, all ob- 

 scure greenish ; all below pale greenish. Posterior margin of prothorax rounded : 

 dorsum of the thorax with a broad sublateral blue or obscure greenish stripe : 

 pleura with a short black median line above, between the wings, sometimes dull 

 blue sometimes obscure green, with a strong metallic reflection so as to exhibit. 

 in certain lights, the appearance of a broad yellow stripe before and behind: 

 sternum pale, more or less pruinose. Abdomen vivid blue in the mature living 

 insect, pale greenish brown in immature specimens ; on joint 1 a basal 

 quadrangular black spot; on joints 2—7 an obhastiform terminal black spot, 

 one millimetre long in 2 — 5, covering two-thirds of the length in 6 and the 

 entire length in 7 ; joint 10 widely emarginate at tip, and with a quadrangular 

 laterally emarginate black spot covering its upper surface. Superior appen- 

 dages robust, short, black, polished, incurved and truncate at tip when -viewed 

 from above; when viewed in profile tapering and curved upwards, and with a 

 small pale tubercle attached inside to the base of each. Inferior appendages 

 pale at base, black at tip, slender, acute, a little longer than the snperiors, 

 sometimes with a terminal unguiculus. Legs pale, femora and tibiae with an 

 anterior black vitta; tarsi with their tips and incisures black. Wings hyaline, 

 pterostigma black, or when itnmature pale brown. Postcubitals 9 — 11. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 387 



The 9 differs from the (^ in the thorax being always marked with obscnre 

 green, not blue, the pleura exhibiting the same reflections as in one (^ ; in 

 the abdomen being more robnst and of an obscure green, not blue ; and in the 

 obhastiform spots on joints 2 — 7 being of a decided metallic green and cover- 

 ing the full length of every joint, the acute tip of each spot being partly 

 truncate ; joints 8 — 9 are black above, except a narrow basal line. The pte- 

 rostigma also is pale-brown, not black. The appendages are pale, short and 

 conical, the superiors rather the longest, the inferiors directed upwards ; and 

 there is a long acute spine at the tip of the eighth ventral segment. The 

 whole body beneath, including the legs, is m.ore or less pruinose. Postcubi- 

 tals 10—11. 



Length J> 29—30 mill, $ 27 mill. Alar expanse (f 34—35 mill. 9 34 

 mill. Two (^, one 9 ! one pair taken in coitu. Specimens of this insect 

 were sent by me in 1860 to Dr. Hagen, who pronounced it a new species, and 

 will probably name it in his forthcoming Appendix to the Synopsis. It 

 scarcely differs from Agr. Doubledayi, Selys, except in the apex of the supe- 

 rior (^ appendages being not excised. The style of ornamentation is precisely 

 that of Ayr. civile, and varies similarly in (;J* 9 • I*- is our commonest spe- 

 cies at Rock Island, except perhaps Agr. Ramburii. 



Agkion binotatum. n. s. — (^ Brassy black. Head and thorax villous. 

 Front pale reddish brown, reddish brown, or in the living mature insect purple, 

 fading to reddish brown in death ; transverse stria of front except laterally, a 

 transverse line before the anterior ocellus, and another divaricating from the 

 base of the antenna to a point before and behind the posterior ocellus, black ; 

 antennse black, their basal joint the color of the front ; all behind the ocelli, 

 as well as the region of the ocelli, black, the occiput with a transverse line, 

 and on each side with a triangular brown spot, both of them subobsolete. 

 Posterior prothoracic lobe rounded ; dorsum of thorax colored as the front, 

 with a narrow dorsal black stripe ; pleura reddish white, often pruinose, with a 

 broad humeral stripe generally enclosing above a pale spot or short stripe, a 

 a short line under the front wing, and a long narrow stripe in the medial 

 suture, stouter above, all black. Abdomen with a yellowish dorsal line on 

 joint 1 — 4, shorter and narrower in each successive joint ; joints 1 — 4 or 1 — 6 

 laterally yellowish, more indistinctly in each successive joint ; a conspicuous 

 yellowish basal annulus on joints 3 — 6, less obvious on 7 ; joints 9 and 10 

 blue, except on the lateral margin, 9 with a black medial dot on each side 

 the dorsum ; joint 10 triangularly emarginate at tip, with a pale tubercle 

 under each salient angle ; venter black. Abdominal appendages black ; the 

 superiors short, moderately robust, somewhat tapering, with a large, robust, 

 glabrous tubercle nearly as long as the appendage on their lower inside corner ; 

 the inferiors longer, vertically very wide, not tapering, widely emarginate 

 and terminating in two obtuse divaricate teeth, the lower one shorter. Legs 

 black ; tibiae superiorly yellowish. Wings subfumose ; pterostigma brown, 

 paler on its margins. Postcubitals 13 — 17. 



The 9 differs in the coloring being paler, and the markings of the hind 

 part of the head distinct ; the spot or stripe enclosed by the humeral black 

 vitta is larger, and often confluent with the pale color behind ; the sides 

 of abdominal joints 1 — 4 or 1 — 6 are more distinctly yellowish, and joint 9 is 

 only blue at tip, sometimes also with a dorsal and lateral blue spot ; no ven- 

 tral spine. The femora are luteous, blackish only superiorly and towards 

 their tips, and the tibiae are entirely yellowish, blackish only on their inferior 

 base. Postcubitals 15 — 18. 



Length (^ 36—38 mill. 9 35—37 mill. Expanse c^ 45—49 mill. 9 49—51 

 mill. Four (^, five 9 • Occurs on and near Wisconsin log-rafts. Very near 

 Agr. fitmipenne, Rambur, but differs in the (^ femora being entirely black, and 

 the abdominal joints 9 and 10 (J* 9 partly blue, and also in the shape of the 

 superior (^ anal appendages. Is related also to the Mexican species Agr. 

 calidiim, Hagen and Agr. cupreum, Hagen. 



1862.] 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



ODONATA (^SCHNINA.) 



[H]EEPET0G0MPHtT8 ? EiTPiNsri.ENSis, n. s. — (^ Grecnisli yellow. Head with 

 the vertical vesicle yellow behind, black in front, cariniform, transverse, 

 scarcely emarginate, slightly recurved, rounded off at the ends, not abbre- 

 viated ; all between this and the front black, except the region of the antennse, 

 which is a little varied with brown ; antennse black, first joint yellowish at 

 tip ; labrum with a fuscous basal dot on each side ; tips of mandibles brown ; 

 central lobe of labium pale livid blue, black on the terminal margin, the 

 lateral lobes pale ; occiput straight, scarcely elevated in the middle, densely 

 ciliated with long black hairs. Dorsum of the thorax with its medial carina 

 brown-black at the first commencement of its bifurcation for one-third of a 

 millimetre, also towards the point where its two branches join the base of 

 the anterior wings ; an abbreviated pale brown line in the humeral suture 

 above ; pleura with the spiracle edged with brown-black ; otherwise the 

 entire thorax is immaculate above and below. Abdomen pale brown, clouded 

 with brown, especially behind the medial suture of the segments, which is 

 brown and glabrous, and with the extreme edges of all the segments brown ; 

 earlets of the second segment yellowish, externally margined with pale brown ; 

 joint 1 mostly greenish yellow ; a basal, glabrous, brown annulus on jointa 

 3 — 7, with indications of a basal lanceolate pale brown spot, suddenly con- 

 tracted behind its middle and surrounded by brown shading, on the dorsum 

 of 2 — 9, tolerably distinct in 7, in 8 becoming very obvious ; 8 and 9 laterally 

 as much dilated as in Gomphtis fratemus, and on the lateral submargin almost 

 greenish yellow ; joints 8 — 10 each about one-third shorter than the preced- 

 ing ; venter pale yellowish green. Abdominal appendages all greenish 

 yellow, with long dense pale hairs ; the superiors longer than the 10th but 

 shorter than the 9th abdominal joint, directed rather downwards, very 

 robust, approximate at base, distant at tip about one-half millimetre ; viewed 

 from above they are convex outside, concave inside, tapering gradually, and 

 obtuse at tip ; viewed laterally, they have an inferior carina, and their tip is 

 squarely truncate, and on their terminal half below are about three irregular 

 TOWS of small short black teeth ; the inferiors touch the superiors at base and 

 are scarcely shorter than they are, exactly attaining the lower angle of their 

 truncated tips ; viewed from below they are almost cylindrical, very robust, 

 and much rounded at tip ; viewed laterally their inferior edge is slightly 

 curved upwards, and their upper edge is semicircularly emarginate for two- 

 thirds the distance from their base, the other third part being obliquely 

 truncate so as to be almost parallel with the lower edge of the upper appen- 

 dage ; on the base of each lower appendage beneath and covering it for one- 

 third its length is a quadrangular anal process, carinate behind on its three 

 margins, the two processes divaricate and connate at their base. Legs pale 

 yellowish green ; the trochanters brown beneath, anteriors very slightly, 

 intermediates and posteriors notably ; anterior femora with a broad anterior 

 brown vitta, the four posterior femora much marked with brown beneath, 

 but anteriorly with only a short terminal vitta ; tibiae all with a wide inferior 

 black vitta ; anterior and intermediate tarsi black, posterior tarsi black 

 beneath, but above with only their tips and incisures widely black. Wings 

 hyaline, slightly flavescent at base ; veins and cross-veins black, except the 

 costal vein which is greenish-yellow anteriorly till a little after it attains the 

 pterostigma ; pterostigma pale brown, its internal cross-vein ] rolonged as 

 nsual, surmounting 4J — 5 cells ; membranule small, cinereous, in the poste- 

 rior wings only extending half way to the anal angle, which is acute and 

 normal. Antecubitals 13 — 14; postcubitals 9 — ^10. Two diseoidal areolets, 

 commencing with two in the front, with three in the hind wings. 



Length cf 54 mijl. Alar expanse (^ 68 mill. Pterostigma super. 3 mill, 

 infer 3^ miU. One (^ ; $ unknown. 



lept. 



[Se 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 389 



This species cannot, witli perfect propriety, be arranged under any of the 

 subgenera of the great genus Gomphus, established in the Monographie des 

 Gompkines. All these subgenera, except Erpetogomphus, have the thorax yel- 

 low with black stripes, or dark with subobsolete yellow stripes, and that sub- 

 genus disagrees with our insect in the vesicle of the vertex being "divided 

 into two tubercles," in "the (J' 10th abdominal segment being equal to the 

 9th," and in "the 8th and 9th segments being but little dilated." {Monogr., 

 p. 69.) The posterior femora in rupinsulensis are short, with subequal spines 

 about two-thirds millimetre long for their entire length. Its complete measure- 

 ment will be found, some pages below, at the end of the genus Gomphus. By 

 relaxing my unique specimen I have ascertained the interesting facts, that it 

 agrees with Erpetogomphus in having no tooth on the second joint of the penis, 

 and that the first genital booklet (hamecon) Is two-branched, precisely in the 

 same extraordinary manner as in Erpetogomphus cophias. (See Man. Gomph., 

 Plate IV, Fig. 6.) 



One of two things, therefore, must necessarily be done. Either a new sub- 

 genus must be founded to receive rupinsuleiwis, or the old subgenus Erpeto- 

 gsmphus must be modified so as to comprehend it. Which of the two courses 

 is adopted is a matter of opinion and taste. For my own part I would suggest 

 that Erpetogomphus be modified so as to run somewhat as follows: "Last 

 abdominal segment not notably shorter than the penultimate ; abdominal 

 appendages with their branches contiguous ; the superiors about as long as or 

 a little longer than the last abdominal segment. [In Erp. designatus they are 

 considerably longer.] No tooth on the second joint of the penis. Legs short. 

 Posterior legs not extending beyond the middle of the third abdominal seg- 

 ment. Thorax with the normal dark stripes more or less obsolete. Abdomen 

 with dorsal lanceolate spots, sometimes subobsolete." If a great number of 

 species should hereafter be discovered, groups founded upon variations in the 

 coloring may be established, as in the subgenus Gomphus. 



So far as can be seen, from the very brief diagnosis of a novel Mexican spe- 

 cies, Erpetogomphus boa, published by M. Selys de Longchamp, in the Addi- 

 tions au Synopsis des Gomphines (p. 11), there is considerable similarity between 

 that species and rupinsulensis. They diflfer, however, not only, as is to be 

 presumed, in the subgeneric characters noted above, but in boa having the 

 tibiae entirely brown, and the inferior appendages only two-thirds the length 

 of the superiors. Moreover the abdomen of boa is proportionally much shorter, 

 being to the inferior wing as thirty-nine to thirty-five, whereas in our species 

 it is as thirty-eight to thirty-one. No true Erpetogomphus has as yet been 

 discovered north of Texas, and all the known species are American. 



Maceogomphus ? SPiNicEPS, n. sp. — 9 Pale obscure brownish. Head with 

 the occiput straight, ciliated with black hairs as long as usual ; its upper edge 

 slightly bent forwards in the middle ; the vesicle of the vertex cariuiform, 

 curving backwards in an exact semicircle, the sides of which are laminiform 

 and much elevated, and the middle and the posterior extremities much de- 

 pressed, the latter not attaining the eyes ; between each of these extremities 

 and the eye is a slender acute black thorn, as long as the second joint of the 

 antennae ; antennae black ; front projecting less than is usual in Gomphus, and 

 excised less than usual, its angulation about quadrangular, and not in an 

 acute angle as in Gomphus fraternus Say, the apex of the angle not rounded 

 off; the basal half of its upper surface is pale brown, glabrous, polished ; the 

 other half j'ellow, opaque, with black hairs ; its anterior surface is pale brown, 

 semi-transparent, immaculate ; mandibles brown at tip ; the rest of the mouth 

 pale brown above, yellowish with long rufous hairs beneath. Prothorax 

 largely and obscurely varied with brown ; dorsum of the thorax entirely 

 brown, except a faint pale brown, much abbreviated, oblique line on each side 

 of the central carina, indicating the place where the dorsal stripe has almost 



1862.] 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



united with the antehiimeral ; dorsal carina brown-black on its extreme tipper 

 edge ; covering each side of the dorsum, and parallel with that prolongation 

 of the dorsal carina which runs to the base of the anterior wings, are four equi- 

 distant brown-black lines, attaining the suture below, but not quite attaining 

 the carina above, where they are connected each with the adjoining one by a 

 semi-circular brown-black line with its convexity upwards, the middle semi- 

 circle appendiculate above ; on the left side of the dorsum the third line is 

 bifurcate at half its length, and the fourth line is obsolete ; most of these lines 

 are visible to the naked eye, and under the lens they are all very plain, and 

 they convey the impression of being located, not on the exterior surface, but 

 in the interior crust of the thoracic integument ; pleura shaded with brownish 

 immediately behind the humeral suture and under the wings, but with no 

 indication of any stripes ; spiracle deep black ; the rest of the pleura, as well 

 as the sternum, immaculate ; antealar and interalar sinus brown, the two 

 scutella, with a small round piece before them and a piece on each side of 

 them, yellowish. Abdomen long, slender, not expanded at tip, brown-black, 

 its dorsum marked with yellowish as follows : Joint 1 with a round basal spot 

 confluent with a terminal band ; joint 2, which has its earlets yellowish and 

 subobsolete, pale brown before its medial suture, behind which is a lanceolate 

 spot reaching the tip ; 3 — 7 with a small, obscure, basal triangle, more and 

 more obsolete behind, till in 7 it is scarcely perceptible ; 9 and 10 with a basal 

 transverse line, visible only above, which, as in some of the following spe- 

 cies, is in reality a membranous prolongation of the preceding joint ; late- 

 rally 1 — 2 and 8 — 9 are yellowish ; 9, which is nearly half as long again as 8, 

 and five or six times as long as 10, being more conspicuously yellow ; 3 — 4 

 have an obscure basal yellowish triangle, with indications of yellowish mark- 

 ings on the succeeding joints ; joint 10 is entirely pale brown both dorsally 

 and laterally, except the membranous basal line. Joint 8 is a little dilated 

 towards its tip, as compared with the preceding joints, but 9 is actually much 

 narrower than the other joints at tip, and no wider than they are at base. 

 Abdominal appendages one and a half millimetres long, brown-black, conical, 

 slender, acute, wide apart at base, directed downwards, slightly convergent, 

 paler beneath, pubescent under the lens, surmounting a pale brown semicircular 

 anal process, which is two-fifths their length and is directed downwards. The 

 vulvar lamina is entirely concealed by the sides of abdominal joint 9, but on 

 relaxing the specimen it is found that the entire ventral pipe is apparently 

 truncate a little before the tip of the 8th abdominal joint, leaving the 9th 

 abdominal and ventral joints in reality perfectly approximate, except at their 

 extreme tip — where they, as well as the entire 10th ventral and abdominal 

 joints, are normal — and exposing an enormous vulvar orifice under the tip of 

 the 8th ventral. The vulvar lamina is reduced to a very small and somewhat 

 obscure transverse, short, obsemi-oval piece, forming a prolongation of the 

 lower side of the 8th ventral, to the posterior edge of which piece is attached 

 a smaller, transverse, short, semi-oval piece, slit for its entire length. The 

 average width of the 9th ventral is about three-quarter millimetre, and the 

 anal passage is marked by a dark vitta. By this extraordinary arrangement, 

 as will be observed, almost the whole of the 9th abdominal is converted into 

 a lateral lamina, although externally no such phenomenon is apparent. Legs 

 pale brown ; femora shading into brown at their tips, especially anteriorly ; 

 tibiffi and tarsi brown-black. Wings hyaline, slightly flarescent at base, espe- 

 cially the anteriors ; membranule slender and pale dusky ; veins and cross-veins, 

 including the costal, all black ; pterostigma very long, yellowish brown, sur- 

 rounded as usual by coarse black veins, surmounting (> — 7 cellules, the pro- 

 longing vein of its inner side thicker than the adjoining cross veins, but a 

 very little dislocated in every wing, and also forming an angle of about 170*^* 



* I observe this peculiarity also in Gomphus fuvialh and amnicola mihi, but not in my 

 other four species- 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



with the inner edge of the pterostigma, and exhibiting a tendency to run 

 parallel with the adjoining cross-veins. Antecubitals 14 — 15 ; postcubitals 

 12 — 13. Two discoidal areolets, commencing with 2 before, with 3 behind. 



Length $ , 62 mill. Alar exp. ? , 81 mill. Abdomen $ , 45 mill. One 

 mature 9 , (j^ unknown. 



Besides the somewhat smaller number of antecubitals (14 — 15, inst<-ad of 

 16—19), the species varies from the characters of Macrogomphus only in the 

 5th antecubital cross-vein being robust, instead of the 7th, the membranule 

 being rather pale dusky than black, the absence of a protuberance on the 

 middle of the occiput, in having only a single subobsolete pale dorsal stripe 

 on the dorsum of the thorax instead of two, and no stripes at all on the pleura 

 instead of two yellow ones, in the abdomen being scarcely annulate with yel- 

 low — in which respect it agrees with paraUeloyramma and differs from annu- 

 latus, the unique specimen of rohustus having lost its abdomen — and in the 

 femora being normally dilated, and not merely dilated towards their tips. All 

 the femora, as in Macrcjomphus, are armed with irregular short teeth beneath, 

 not disposed in rows, and the posterior ones are armed on each side towards 

 their tips with a regular row of spines, as usual in 2 Gomphus, and as is said 

 to be the case in M. annulatus. The posterior tarsi are about four-iifths the 

 tibiae, the others about three-fifths. It is scarcely necessary, I hope, to add, 

 that the triangles of the wings are all free from cross-veins. 



From the most exact measurements I am able to make, abdominal joints 6 

 — 10 are respectively 5.}, 4|, 3|, 5^ and 1 millimetres long, 3 — 6 being the 

 same length, so far as the eye can judge. 



There is the same disproportionate elongation of the 9th joint in Macrogovi- 

 phus, which, as is remarked in the Motiographie (p. 94\ " is a unique fact 

 among the Odonata." In that subgenus joints 3 — 6 are equal, 7 is a little 

 shorter, 8 is only half as long as 9, 9 is longer than even any one of 3^6, and 

 10 is scarcely one-sixth of 9. {Mon., p. 87.) Again, of the three Asiatic spe- 

 cies at present placed in that subgenus, two only are known in 9 > ^^d in 

 both these two special mention is made of the Q vertical vesicle being curved 

 as in our species, and having a small tooth at its extremities, just as is the 

 case in. spiniceps. {Macr. parallelogramma 9j ^lon., p. SO, and compare Plate 

 V, Fig. 5 ; Macr. annulatus Q , Mon., p. 92.) The front, too, in all three spe- 

 cies is said to be obtusely angulated, and but slightly projected ; and in annu- 

 latus the long 9th abdominal joint is described and figured as being tapered at 

 the tip precisely as in spinicejis, and is said to be "excavated" beneath, pro- 

 bably just as in our species. Other striking points of resemblance are, the 

 costal not being yellow, the imperfect prolongation of the internal side of the 

 pterostigma, the extreme length of the pterostigma, the large number of ante- 

 cubitals, and the shortness of the posterior legs, which in Macrogomj'hus are 

 said to attain only the middle of the third abdominal joint, just as is the case 

 in spiniceps mihi. Although Macrogomphus has hitherto only occurred in Java 

 and Hindostan, and although, as has been already seen, there are several 

 minor characters in the circumscription of that subgenus — chiefly, however, 

 characters drawn from colorization — which do not at all suit spiniceps, yet, I 

 think, we can scarcely avoid considering this species as a Macrogomphus, or at 

 all events as the American analogue of that most remarkable Asiatic form. 

 The full measurements, which will be found a few pages below, along with 

 those of the 9 of two Asiatic species, agree closely with those two species, 

 except in the length of the posterior femur, where, I suspect, some error has 

 crept into the figures of the Monographie. It will be satisfactory if, on the 

 discovery of the -^ spiniceps, its abdominal appendages should be found to be 

 like those of (J' Macrogomphus. 



GoMPHtrs spiNoscs, Selys. (Des Plaines river, near Chicago ; not hitherto 

 found north of Georgia.) G. fkaterxus, Say ! 



Gomphus vastus, Hagen MS. ! n. sp. — (^ Greenish yellow. Head with the 

 1862.] 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



upper edge of tlie occiput straight, narrowly bordered with black, and filiate 

 with long black hairs, its lateral margins behind generaDy black ; vesicle of 

 vertex loftily cariniform or laminiform, black, slightly abbreviated, a little 

 emargiuate, almost truncate at its extremities ; region of the ocelli and vertex 

 black ; antennae black ; basal half of the superior surface of the front black ; 

 a broa 1 meiial black band on its anterior surface, straight above, below gene- 

 rally extending in two waves to the transverse striae on its anterior submargin, 

 which are unusually deep ; epistoma blackish ; labrum margined anteriorly 

 and sometimes laterally with black, and with a wide basal black triangle, 

 which is sometimes confluent with the black anterior margin ; tips of man- 

 dibles, central lobe of labium, and interior margin of its lateral lobes, all 

 black : back of the head black, with two separate and distinct yellow spots 

 behind the eyes on each side. Prothorax black, with the middle of its ante- 

 rior edge, one small transverse double spot on its disk, one larger lateral round 

 spot, and one short oblique line immediately above the coxae, all greenish yel- 

 low; dorsum of thorax with a double medial black stripe, almost always 

 widened in front, not attaining the anterior margin by one-half to two thirds 

 millimetre ; the dorsal carina yellow, except a small spot in front which is 

 black, and all behind its posterior furcation, which is black and narrowly 

 margined with black; the antealar sinus black in front; a wide antehumeral 

 black stripe abbreviated above, and a humeral black stripe on the suture never 

 confluent above with the antehumeral ; pleura with a black oblique line, some- 

 times interrupted towards its upper end, just before the spiracle which is 

 black, and a narrower line in the suture behind the spiracle, which last line 

 is occasionally subobsolete ; sternum pale greenish, sometimes varied with 

 dusky, often with a large obscure dusky spot behind the posterior coxae. Ab- 

 domen black, expanded to an unusual width on segments 7 — 9, its dorsum 

 marked with greenish yellow as follows : Joint 1 with a large terminal obtri- 

 gonate spot extending to its base ; 2 with a broad vitta, generally biemarginate 

 laterally ; 3 — 7 with a narrow basal line tapering to a point behind, slightly 

 or not at all abbreviated in 3, more and more abbreviated towards 7, where it 

 reaches to only two-fifths of the joint, and is a little wider than in any of 

 the other joints ; earlets on joint 2 yellow, anteriorly black, posteriorly with 

 many minute black teeth ; laterally joints 1, 2 and 9 are yellow, except the 

 posterior edge of 2 ; 3 — 7 with a basal yellow triangle, extending to the infe- 

 rior margin ; 8 with a transverse basal yellow line on the dorsum, sometimes 

 invisible, which is in reality a membranous prolongation of 7, and also with a 

 large, quadrangular, basal, yellow spot, one third or one-fourth as long as the 

 joint, which never attains the inferior mar,i(in of the segment, though it always 

 attains the basal angle ; venter fuscous, sometimes mottled with yellow. Ab- 

 dominal appendages black ; the superiors wide apart at base, twice as long as 

 the last abdominal joint, which is one-quarter the length of the penultimate 

 joint, slender, conical, strongly divaricate, regularly curved downwards for 

 three-fourths their length, when they suddenly curve upwards and taper to a 

 very fine, long, acute point; below at the change in the curvature is a small 

 spine directed downwards ; the inferiors are three-fourths as long as the supe- 

 riors, wide apart at base, more divaricate than the superiors, slender, taper- 

 ing, obtuse, suddenly curved upwards at three- fourths the distance to their 

 tips, with a deep obtuse stria on their external basal half. Legs black, coxae 

 generally more or less yellow exteriorly ; anterior femora with a broad poste- 

 rior yellow vitta slightly abbreviated, but never covering less than five-sixths 

 of their length. Wings hyaline, almost always slightly flavescent at base ; 

 costal vein anteriorly yellow to the commencement of the pterostigma, occa- 

 sionally only 'o the nodus ; the other veins and cross-veins black ; pterostigma 

 brown, sometimes yellowish brown, surmounting 4 — 5 cells ; membranule 

 cinereous. Antecubitals 14 — 15 ; postcubitals 10 — 13. Two discoidal areo- 

 lets, commencing generally with three ; occasionally with two in the upper 

 wing, but never in the lower wing. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



393 



The 9 hag a short, robust, conical black thorn at each extremity of the ver- 

 tical vesicle, rising about as high as the ocellus does. The upper edge of the 

 occiput is bent forwards in the middle, so as to appear emarginate when viewed 

 obliquely from above ; in one somewhat immature specimen the central lobe 

 of the labium is yellow; in another specimen the lip of the intermediate femur 

 is posteriorly yellow. AH my 9 specimens have, in addition to the prothoracic 

 spots of (^, a small additional transverse spot, occupying only the middle 

 of the posterior prothoracic lobe. The earlets (oreillettes) are subobso- 

 lete. Tiie abdominal appendages black, pubescent, half as long again as the 

 last abdominal joint, wide apart at base, cylindrical, slender, very slightly 

 curved downwards, acute, surmounting a transversely semioval anal process, 

 which only extends to one-half their length. Vulvar lamina black, polished, 

 more than half as long as the ninth segment, elongate-conical, curved upwards, 

 contracted in its middle, with a deep, longitudinal suture, its tips bifid and 

 approximate. Antecubitals 13 — 16; postcubitals 11 — 13. 



Length ^ 53—55 mill. ; $ 53 — 55 mill. Alar expanse J* 60—67 mill. ; 9 

 63 — 72 mill. Pterostigma (J* 9 '^'^o'^tSJ mill. Described from eleven (^, three 9- 



There exist in the United States three distinct, but closely allied species, 

 representing the Gompkus vulgaiissimus of Europe, the third one of which is 

 now for the first time described. The first is the G. fratermis of Say ; the se- 

 cond the G. adelphus of Selys. What is very remarkable, they are all three of 

 them nearly alike in the shape of the superior (^ abdominal appendage, and unlike 

 their European prototype in that important character, which is usually different 

 in every different species. In vulgatissimus it is much more robust than in vas- 

 tus, and when viewed laterally it is obliquely truncate at tip below, without any 

 inferior thorn. (See Monogr. p. 131 and Plate VII., fig. 6.) In our three species 

 ii is as I have described it in vastus. As the three resemble each other very 

 closely, it may perhaps be useful to tabulate their principal differences. 



Average length 

 Thorn at each end of > 

 5 vertical vesicle* J 



Front, anterior snrface 



Back of occiput 



Spot, behind eyes 



Posterior prothoracic ) 

 lobe J 



Dorsum of Sth ah- ) 

 dominal segment \ 



Sth abdominal segment 



Expanse of Sth ab-> 

 dominal segment J 



Width of Sth ventral) 

 segment \ 



Vulvar lamina of 9 



Length of pterostigma 



G.fraternus. 



56 millimetres 

 LongjSlender, yellowish 



Tellow 



f Yellow, black at the 

 \ sides 



( Three, yellow, often 

 X confluent 



Entirely yellow 



A basal yellow vitta 



f Yellow at base on the 

 \ lateral margin 



4i millimetres 



2i millimetres 



rObtuse at tips and") 

 < curved strongly > 



{_ outward ) 



About Zk millimetres 



"S 



54 millimetres 



Short, robust, black 



/Yellow, banded with 

 t black 



Yellow, black at the } 



sides J 



Two, yellow, never } 



confluent j 



TBlack (J, only cen- 



< trally yellow 



I 9 



Black 



f Yellow at base on"! 



< the lateral sub- > 

 (_ margin J 



7 millimetres 



3j millimetres 



Acute at tips, and"! 



curving moderate- ! 



]y upwards, tips j 



(. approximate J 



About 3g millimetres 



G. adtlpkus. 



(From -'Monogr., 



p. 414.) 



43 millimetres 

 « * * 



Yellow ? 

 All black 



f A basal yellow 

 \ vitta, semiobsolete 



Entirely black 



9 unknown 

 2 millimetres 



* I have myself observed this curious character to exist always in $ Gomphus fratermis, Say, 

 in 9 G.fluvialis, m\hi. in 5 G. amnicola, mihi, and also in $ Macrogomphus f fpiniceps, mihi, 

 but never in the cj of the first three species, of which alone I possess the cf. In 9 G- grasli- 

 neUus. mihi. it is obsolete. It has likewise been de-rribcd in the " Monographie" as existing 

 in 9 Gomphiis spinosus, and, as before stated, in ? ^facro(f<>mphus parallelograma and in $ M. 

 annulatus ; and in the descriptions of the cf d" of these same three species, no mention is made 



1862.] 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Early ia the summer of 1860 I sent a single ^ vastus along with a r^ fraler- 

 nus, to Dr. Hagen, supposing them to be identical. In his reply he kindly 

 pointed out three of the principal distinguishing characters, and informed me that 

 he had received from Maryland another 9 of the same species, which he had 

 named vastus — the ^ being to this day, I presume, unknown to him. In a sub- 

 sequent letter he said that " vastus was probably a new species." It will be 

 noticed that vastus is not included in the Synopsis. The reason I do not know ; 

 but I conjecture, from collating the description of 9 Gomphus vulgatissimus, 

 that until the discovery of (^ vastus^ it was difficult or impossible either to se- 

 parate the American species from its European prototype, or to identify the two 

 species satisfactorily. To Dr. Hagen, therefore, justly belongs the honor of 

 attaching his name to this fine and interesting insect; to me belongs only the 

 labor of describing it from an unusually large number of specimens. 



Gomphus graslinellus, n. sp. — (^ 9 Differ from G. f rater nus only as follows : 

 the posterior prothoracic lobe is black, generally with a central yellow dot ; 

 the carina of the dorsum of the thorax is black; the eighth abdomioal segment 

 is yellow on the lateral margin for its entire length, and the tibiae are exteriorly 

 yellow, except at the tip. In the (^' the sheath [gaine) of the penis is conspicu- 

 ously pruinose; and the superior abdominal appendages have a small inferior 

 tooth very near the tip, and in addition a very large quadrangular one on the 

 middle of their external side, as in the European G. graslini. (Mon. Gomph., 

 Plate viii., fig. 3.) In the $ there is no lateral thorn on the carina of the ver- 

 tex, and the vulvar scales are only one-sixth as long as the ninth ventral seg- 

 ment, and divaricate from their base. 



Length J' 50—53 mill. ; 9 51—53. Expanse ^ 66—69; 9 66—70. Ptero- 

 stigma 2>\ — 4 mill. Four (j^, seven 9- Occurred in Coal "Valley Creek, in 

 Rock Island County, and also on the Des Plaines and Chicago rivers in Cook 

 County. Its European representative, G. graslini, has black markings on the 

 front, the carina of the thoracic dorsum yellow, and two yellow vittse (anterior 

 and posterior?) on the outside of all the thighs, Vih^re&s graslinellus^\Vs.e frater- 

 nus, has only a posterior yellow vitta on the anterior femora. 



Gomphus fluvialis, n. sp. — rj^ Obscure greenish yellow. Head with the occi- 

 put straight, narrowly margined on its sides before and behind with black, and 

 with long, black ciliations ; vertical vesicle black, cariniform, abbreviated, 

 transverse, emarginate, slightly tubercled at each extremity ; antennae, and the 

 whole region of the ocelli to the base of the occiput, black ; seta of antenna; 

 generally pale at tip ; front sharply and squarely angulated, ot as prominent 

 as in fr at emus, with its upper side basally fasciate with palish brown, the an- 

 terior edge of the fascia widely biemarginate ; anterior surface of front with its 

 upper half and its two transverse foveae, generally palish brown, and its infe- 

 rior corners brown ; epistoma clouded with brown ; labrum anteriorly margined 

 with brown and with a brown vitta; extreme tips of mandibles, and the termi- 

 nal processes of the lateral labial lobes, pale brown ; back part of the head 

 brown next the occiput. Prothorax brown black, anteriorly and laterally 

 yellow, and uniformly with a double yellow spot immediately before its 

 posterior lobe. Dorsum of the thorax with the dorsal carina, which is not 

 higher than usual, always brown black from its bifurcation backwards, gene- 

 rally in front of the bifurcation brown black except its extreme edge above : a 

 double, central, brown-black, wedge-shaped stripe, not attaining the anterior 

 edge by a third or half millimetre, and narrowly confluent before and behind 

 with the antehumeral, occasionally not confluent before ; a wide brown black 



of any such appendage. I suspect that I am the first to announce it as a normali or perhaps only 

 an occasional, 9 sexual character of the great genus Gomphus. At all events no such character 

 is enumerated in the list of the sexual distinctions of that genus in the "Monographic," (p. 11.) 

 Similar sexual appendages on the head are elsewhere iu the Class Insecta (gcnuiua). so far as I 

 recollect at present, found not on the ? hut on the rf head, as in the well-known coleopterous 

 Phanceus carnifex and many other lamelllcorn species. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



antehumeral stripe attaining the anterior edge, and a brown humeral stripe on 

 the suture; pleura pale or yellowish, with a rather narrow brown stripe before 

 the spiracle, which last is edged with black, and a similar one on the suture be- 

 hind the spiracle, sometimes subobsolete ; antealar sinus black in front; ster- 

 num pale. Abdomen brown black, with joints 7 — 9 but slightly dilated be- 

 neath, and marked with yellow on the dorsum as follows : — ^joint one, with a 

 large longitudinal oval spot, confluent laterally and basally with a small spot, 

 and together with the three small spots covering its entire length ; two, with a 

 lanceolate spot on its entire length ; 3 — 8, with a narrow cuneiform basal spot 

 about 1 — IJ^ millimetres long, sometimes throwing out behind a narrow line, 

 which is often interrupted before the medial suture of the joint, and never quite 

 attains the tip ; joints nine and ten with a narrow basal membranous line ; late- 

 rally joints one, two and ten are yellow, except behind the earlets, which are 

 yellow, with a few small black thorns on their posterior edge, and except also 

 the tip of joint two ; joints 3 — 6 have a small basal triangular yellow spot, be- 

 coming gradually smaller, until in six it is subobsolete, and joints 7 — 9 are sub- 

 marginally yellow, the yellow in seven and eight more or less mottled with 

 brown at tip; venter pale yellow towards the tip, where it is visible. Superior 

 abdominal appendages half as long as the ninth joint, which is nearly four times 

 as long as the tenth, black, slender, tapering, conical, approximate at base, di- 

 varicate, slightly curved downwards for three-fourths their length, the remain- 

 ing fourth straight, with an inferior carina much curved outwards, and ascend- 

 ing their sides to about half their length, whence it again curves inwards and 

 is produced to their tips ; inferior appendages one-fifth shorter and more robust 

 than the superiors, pubescent, black, pale at their internal base, approximate 

 at base, more widely divaricate than the superiors, scarcely tapering, with the 

 lower surface rounded and the upper flat, and finally, just before they attain 

 their furthe.st limit, hemispherically excavated above, when the tip turns sud- 

 denly and almost squarely upwards for J or J millimetre, and terminates 

 acutely. Legs brown black, coxae and trochanters yellowish, intermediate 

 trochanters brown beneath; anterior femora yellowish inferiorly and poste- 

 riorly; tibiae and tarsi in the more mature individuals, deep black. Wings 

 hyaline; veins and cross-veins all, including the costa, black; membranule 

 cinereous; pterostigma pale brown, surmounting 4^ — 5^ cells. Antecubitals 

 12 — 15; postcubitals 9. Two discoidal areolets. commencing always with three 

 behind, sometimes with three before. 



The 9 differs from the ^J" in the vertical vesicle being strongly tubercled at 

 each end, between which and the eye is a robust, conical, black thorn, rising 

 as high as the ocellus ; the dorsal thoracic stripes are in one specimen and on 

 one side only confluent with the anterior margin; the cuneiform dorsal spots of 

 the abdomen are sometimes subobsolete : and the abdomen is marginally yellow 

 for its entire length, with an abbreviated submarginal yellow vitta on joints 3 

 — 6, which is sometimes confluent with the yellow margin, sometimes sepa- 

 rated from it by a black line. Both the anterior and intermediate femora 

 are yellowish inferiorly and posteriorly, and the posterior femora are entirely 

 yellowish, except a terminal superior and anterior black vitta. The earlets 

 are subobsolete. The O abdominal appendages are more than a third as 

 long as the penultimate abdominal joint, black, slender, tapering, wide apart 

 at base, acute, parallel, directed slightly downwards, twice as long as the semi- 

 circular anal process, which is yellowish, and has two black triangular vitlae 

 above. The vulvar lamina is only one millimetre long, fuscous, and terminates 

 in two rather slender divaricating conical branches ; and the venter, when vi- 

 sible, has joints 3 — 6, and the basal two-thirds of eight fuscous. Occasionally 

 there is a very slight flavescence at the base of all four wings, Antecubitals 

 13 — 15; postcubitals 7 — 11. 



Length J^ 51—55 mill. $ 48—56 mill. Alar expanse (f G5— 67 mill, 9 

 67 — 75 mill. Pterostigma (J' 3^ — 4 mill. 9 4 — 4^ mill. Expanse of the eighth 

 1862.] 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



abdominal segment 3 mill. Described from 3 (^, 6 $ , some rather imma- 

 ture, some tolerably mature. As might have been expected the second joint 

 of the penis is toothed, and is about three and a half times as long as the 

 third joint exclusive of the claws. Belongs to the group " pallidus " of the 

 subgenus Gomphus, from the six described species of which group it is sepa- 

 rated at once, as well as the following, by the black costal vein. 



This insect breeds both in the Mississippi River in North Illinois and in the 

 Ohio River in South Illinois, the pupa crawling out on to the banks to assume 

 the imago form. G. fraternus, G. vastus and G. amnicola, mihi, all likewise 

 breed in the Mississippi River, and it is remarkable that in the same spot and 

 on the same day I have seen fraternus, vastus a.ndijluvialis all coming out of 

 the pupa together in considerable numbers. I suspect that most, if not all, 

 Gomphi breed in running, not in stagnant, water. This may explain the fact 

 of my being able to describe no less than six new species of the genus, all 

 obtained within a few miles of the City of Rock Island, which lies on the nar- 

 row point of land formed by the coniiuence of Rock River with the Mis- 

 sissippi. The habits of fluvialis are very distinct from those oi fraternus and 

 vastus. The two latter haunt the land, often occurring in flocks a mile and 

 more from the river ; and from their frequently alighting they are easy to 

 capture. The former makes long excursions to and fro on the surface of the 

 river, scarcely ever approaching the land except for a second, and then never, 

 so far as I have noticed, alighting. Hence it is exceedingly difficult to cap- 

 ture. My specimens were all obtained by taking them just as they came out 

 of the pupa, and allowing them to live as long as they saw fit, which was 

 generally from three to six days. On June 16, 1861, I took a vastus with the 

 Phryganeide macronema zebratum in its mouth. Fluvialis no doubt feeds 

 exclusively on aquatic insects. 



In the autumn of 1860, Dr. Hagen most kindly sent me copies of the magnifi- 

 cent Monographic des Gomphines and Monographic des Calopterijgines. With 

 the assistance of the former, I was enabled confidently to announce fluvialis 

 as a new and undescribed species in my premium " Essay oii Insects injurious 

 to Vegetation in Illinois," p. 341, (printed in the fourth Volume of the Trans- 

 actions of the Illinois State Agricultural Society,) which was placed in the 

 hands of the Society January 3, 1861. I had previously sent a 2 of fluvialis 

 to Dr. Hagen, not having myself met with the (^ till 1861, and was much 

 gratified by afterwards receiving a letter from him in reply, dated Feb. 16, 

 1861, in which he confirmed my opinion by stating positively that " it forms 

 a new species." I have therefore felt perfectly justified in affixing a name to 

 a species, which I was the first to announce as new, and which is now for the 

 first time described in print. 



GoMPHiTS AMXicoLA, n. s. — 9 Diflfers from the normal 9 of the preceding 

 species only in the following particulars : — 1st. The ground color is bright 

 deep yellow. 2d. The vertex is yellow behind the vesicle, and there is a lon- 

 gitudinal rectangular ridge on the centre of the vesicle, giving it the appear- 

 ance of being tri- not bi-tubercled. 3d. The angulation of the front is not acute, 

 but the angle is obtuse rather than square and has its apex much rounded off. 

 4th. The basal fascia of the front above is not bi-, but tri-emargiuate, viz. 

 one very small and deep central and one large and wide lateral emargination. 

 5th. The anterior frontal fascia is obsolete. 6th. The labrum is anteriorly 

 margined, but not vittate, with black. 7th. The central lobe of the labium 

 is fuscous at tip and the lateral lobes are tipped with fuscous inside. 8th. 

 The dorsal carina of the thorax is unusually high. 9th. The medial, cunei- 

 form thoracic stripe is much slenderer. 10th. The narrow yellow line sepa- 

 rating the humeral from the antehumeral stripe is only half as wide as in 

 fluvialis, and is interrupted above ; and as a consequence of this and the pre- 

 ceding difl'erence, the antehumeral is very much wider. 11th. The first stripe 

 of the pleura is either interrupted or abbreviated above, and the second is 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



397 



reduced to a sliort line above. 12th. The dorsal markings of the abdomen 

 are similar, but very much wider and continuous to the middle of joint 8. 

 13th. The vulvar lamina terminates in two robust, approximate, conical 

 branches. Antecubitals 13 — 15; postcubitals 9 — 11. Two discoidal cellules, 

 commencing with 2 in the front wings, with 3 on the hind wings. 



The (^ differs in the same way, except that the vitta on the dorsum of the 

 abdomen is interrupted at the tips of joints 6 and 7, and is narrower than in 

 9 . The abdominal appendages are precisely like those of (^ fluvialis, except 

 that the hemispherical excavation at the tip of the lower ones is obsolete. 

 Antecubitals 11 — 13 ; postcubitals 9 — 11. 



Length cf 47—48 mill. $ 48—50 mill. Expanse J^ 65—67 mill. Q 70—73 

 mill. Pterostigma 3^ — 4 mill. Four (^, eight 9 . 



The following measurements of the six new Gomphi previously described 

 have been taken from single specimens ; and for the sake of comparison I 

 have added those of some allied species, for which, except that of fratemus, I 

 am Indebted to the Monographie. The figures represeat millimetres. 



CORDULEGASTER 0BLIQUU8, Say O . ASAX JCKIUS, Drury ! ^SCHXA CLEPSY- 

 DRA, Say (^' $! [? undescribed.] ^schxa cosstricta, Say! ./Eschna heros, 

 Fabr. ^schxa pentacantha, Bamb. (^ 2: [not hitherto found north of Loui- 

 siana ; 9 undescribed.] 



ODONATA (LIBELLULINA.) 



Macromia Illinoiensis, n. sp. — 9 Brown. Head with the vertical vesicle bi- 

 lobed, the lobes divaricate, each forming an equilateral triangle; antennae 

 black ; front prominent, laterally contracted towards its summit, deeply exca- 

 vated above, the angulation of the superior with the anterior surface much 

 rounded off except at the sides, above black with violet reflections, with four 

 separate, basal, obtrigonate yellow spots, two outside the excavation, two inside 

 the anterior surface, with its upper half brown and its lower half yellow, the 

 latter enclosing the two usual transverse striaj, which are widely and deeply 

 impressed, but not acute; epistoma and labrum of a paler semi-transparent 

 brown, the latter with a wide obtuse longitudinal carina, and obscurely yellow 

 towards its tip in the middle, its anterior edge brown; tips of the mandibles 



1 1 give this figure just as I find it, but I am pretty sure there is some clerical or typographical 

 error here, aiid that 4i should be replaced by Vj. Macr. robustus (J, a species of the same size 

 within a millimetre or two, is said to have its posterior femur 7% millimetres ling, and it is difii- 

 eult to see how a Qomphine as large as this, with the posterior femur only 4J millimeters long, 

 could have a hind leg exteuding to the middle of the third ablorainal segment, which is given 

 a." one of the characters of the subgenus Macrogomphus. Unfortunately in the third species of 

 Mocrngomphus (annulatus) the diuiensions of the posterior femur are omitted. 



1862.] 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



black, glabrous ; the rest of the mouth pale semi-transparent brown ; back part 

 of the head black, polished, without any hair next the eyes. Thorax covered 

 with dense, long, pale brown hair; the space included in the double edge of 

 each posterior bifurcation of the dorsal carina, bright yellow, no indications of 

 any stripes on the dorsum ; pleura with a distinct yellow stripe enclosing the 

 spiracle ; sternum pale brown. Abdomen inflated at base to the middle of joint 

 three, thence much compressed and carinate above, pubescent, black, except 

 joint one and the basal half of two, which are pale brown : two with a marginal 

 yellow spot on each side underneath at its base, and a yellow medial transverse 

 line, interrupted slightly above, beneath much abbreviated: 3 — 6 each with an 

 elongate, semi-oval, yellow spot on each side the dorsum, the straight side of 

 the spot on the medial suture, and the spot itself covering two-thirds the dis- 

 tance from the suture to the base of the joint ; seven with a dorsal semieircular 

 basal spot extending to the medial suture, and confluent at its extreme tip, with 

 a similar but very much smaller yellow spot immediately behind the suture: 

 laterally three has a lanceolate basal and marginal yellow spot extending two- 

 thirds of its length, and four and eight have a small, obscure, basai, triangular 

 yellow spot ; venter black, so far as visible. Abdominal appendages a little 

 longer than the tenth abdominal joint, black, rather slender, depressed, directed 

 downwards, suddenly curving on their inner edge to an acute point, each sur- 

 mounting a semicircular, black anal process as long as itself. Vulvar lamina 

 black, very small, composed of two very small, approximate, roundish tubercles, 

 from which proceed two robust, widely divaricate, medially inflated branches, 

 convex in front, concave behind, and with a blunt, subbasal tooth on their pos- 

 terior edge. Legs black ; coxae and trochanters pale brown, except the anterior 

 trochanters, which are distinctly yellow on their inferior surface. Wings hya- 

 line, strongly flavescent at their extreme costal base, and moderately so on 

 their terminal third, the flavescence in the anterior wing extending inwardly 

 along the costa beyond the nodus ; a distinct ferruginous stripe between the 

 costal and subcostal veins, extending from the base of each wing nearly to the 

 first cross-vein ; veins and cross-veins black, except the upper oi the two veins 

 which coalesce to form the costal, which in the lower wing, from a little inside 

 the nodus to the tip of the pterostigma, is yellowish anteriorly ; raembranule 

 white, cinereous at tip; pterostigma trapezoidal, black. Triangles with one 

 cross-vein, in one posterior wing with two. Antecubitals IS: postcubitals 9 — 

 10. Two discoidal areolets, commencing with three, except one anterior wing 

 where it commences with two. 



Length $ 64 mill. Alar expanse 9 100 mill. Hind femur 12 mill.; hind 

 tibia 11 mill. Pterostigma 3 mill. One 9; S' unknown. Abdominal joints 

 4 — 6 are equal ; seven is about a fifth shorter than six, and 8 — 10 each about a 

 third shorter than the joint immediately preceding it, ten being about one and 

 a half millimetres long. The hind legs extend to the middle of the fifth abdo- 

 minal joint. Very distinct in its ornamentation from all the described N. A. 

 species, except pacifica^ Hagen, of which only a fragmentary specimen exists, 

 and sufficiently distinct from that by the greater number of its antecubitals, 

 (eighteen instead of sixteen,) but especially by the coloration of its wings. 



Macromia flavipennis, n. sp. — 9 DiS'ers from the preceding as follows: — 

 the front above is entirely yellow, except a broad, fuscous vitta in the excava- 

 tion. Each side of the dorsum of the thorax there is a yellow stripe. Joint two 

 of abdomen has a subbasal, yellow fascia, extending on the inferior margin to 

 the tip, narrowly interrupted above, and occupying one-half its surface ; in joint 

 three the spot is similar to that of the preceding, but longer; 4 — 7 marked as 

 is seven in the preceding, and eight with a basal, semicircular spot on the dor- 

 sum, occupying nearly one-half its length: laterally the small, obscure, basal 

 spot is visible only in eight, instead of 4 and 8. The vulvar lamina is appa- 

 rently composed of one large central tubercle, and two robust, inflated branches 

 curving upwards. The wings are entirely flavescent, very strongly so on the 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



costa ; the ferruginous basal stripe, between the costal and subcostal, is only 

 half as long; costal vein in all four wings yellow to its extreme tip ; triangles 

 all with one cross-vein. Antecubitals 17 — 18; postcubitals 10 — 11; two discoi- 

 dal areolets, commencing with three in all the wings. 



Length $ 69 mill. Expanse 9 94 mill. Pterostigma 3 mill. Hind femora 

 12 mill. ; hind tibiae 11 mill. One 9; c? unknown. Distinct from all described 

 X. A. species, by the yellow costal veins. The front and abdomen resemble 

 those of annulata, Hagen, but the dorsum of the thorax in that species is imma- 

 culate, and the pleura has two yellow stripes. Occurred on the Des Plaines 

 River, near Chicago. 



CoRDULiA TENEBROSA? Say. — C. ^^sfl, Hagen, and C. (enebrosa,SsLj, are evi- 

 dently, from the differences in their ^ abdominal appendages, very distinct 

 species ; and of both these species only the (J' is known. The following 9 may 

 be referred with some propriety to either, though I rather incline to the opinion 

 that it is tenebrosa. Probably some particulars may be mentioned below, which 

 may serve either to identify it with Dr. Hagen's species, or to separate it ef- 

 fectually. 



The abdomen is shaped quite differently in (^ 9 Cordulia lateralis, Barm., the 

 (^ abdomen having a strong constriction on segment three, after which it ta- 

 pers to the tip ; and the 9 abdomen having no constriction whatever, but ta- 

 pering gradually from base to tip, and being much wider and more depressed 

 than the (^. I presume that the same distinction prevails in other species of 

 the genus, and that the abdominal constriction noticed both in filosa, Hagen, 

 and in tenebrosa, Say, is merely a /^ sexual character. Again, the 9 9 of (7. 

 lateralis, have almost always hyaline wings, but I have a single, immature 9 

 specimen, captured at the same time and place with many maturer individuals, 

 with hyaline wings, which has the wings partly fumose ; and C. albicincta, ac- 

 cording to the Synopsis, has the anterior margin of 9 wings subflavescent, 

 while the (^ has hyaline wings. The marginal flavescence on the wings of my 

 9 ought not, therefore, to afford any reason for considering it distinct from 

 either Dr. Hagen's or Say's (^, both of which have hyaline wings. 



9 Obscure, brassy green. Vesicle of the vertex obviously punctured, 

 with long, dense, black hairs, truncate-triangular, its tip with an impressed 

 longitudinal indentation extending half way to its base, brown at tip, 

 black with a slight brassy green reflection at base ; antennse black ; front 

 coarsely and confluently punctuied above, on the upper two-thirds of its ante- 

 rior surface with very coarse punctures mixed with rugae, the punctures lower 

 down becoming obsolete; the punctate surfaces bright, brassy green, bordered 

 laterally and anteriorly with a yellow line, the anterior yellow line straight; 

 the rest of the front, the epistoma and the labrum semitransparent obscure 

 greenish; labium yellowish. Dorsum of thorax, with the carina yellowish, 

 otherwise immaculate ; pleura somewhat polished, with blue reflections, and 

 with two distinct yellow stripes, one before the spiracle, slightly abbreviated 

 and narrower, another behind the spiracle much abbreviated above, slightly 

 below, and wider; sternum pale greenish brown. Abdomen a little inflated at 

 base above, and tapering regularly to its tip, where it is blackish ; glabrous and 

 black below the lateral carina, with a large, obscurely defined, yellowish spot 

 on the second segment beneath, and the basal half of the third segment semi- 

 transparent below, so as to appear yellowish ; joints eight and nine greenish 

 black below the lateral carina ; joint ten triangularly emarginate at its lip for 

 oae-half its length. Abdominal appendages long, slender, black, wide apart 

 at base, pilose, opaque, slightly smaller at base, thence cylindrical, till towards 

 the tip they contract and terminate obtusely ; viewed laterally, they curve very 

 slightly downwards ; viewed from above, they curve slightly inwards for quarter 

 their length, and then divaricate slightly in a straight line ; superior anal pro- 

 cess very short, semicircular, black, deflexed. Vulvar lamina extending nearly 

 to the tip of joint ten, divaricate with the venter, black, glabrous, polished, its 

 inferior surface a hollow semi-cylinder, with its concavity upwards, rounded at 



1862.] 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



tip and prolonged on each side not far from the tip in a lateral, horizontal, la- 

 mina, which at first expands gradually in width towards the base, and finally 

 sweeps round in a regular curve inwards to the tip of joint eight, where the 

 sides of that joint close upon it. Legs black, basal half of the anterior femora, 

 and their trochanters yellowish ; the extreme base of the intermediate femora 

 and their trochanters marked with yellowish ; all six coxae pale, obscure green. 

 Wings hyaline, the anteriors flavescent at their extreme base, and on the costa 

 from about the nodus to the pterostigma; the inferiors flavescent at base, espe- 

 cially next the membranule, and on the costa from inside the nodus to the pte- 

 rostigma ; veins and cross-veins black; pterostigma small, black, surmounting 

 not quite one cell ; membranule fuscous, whitish at its extreme base. Antecu- 

 bitals eight, postcubitals six. Discoidal areolets two, commencing always with 

 two. 



Length 9 60 mill. Alar expanse 9 83 mill. Pterostigma 9 2^ mill. Ab- 

 dominal appendages 9 3 J mill. One 9) cJ^ unknown. Joints 8 — 10 of the ab- 

 domen are each from one-half to one-third shorter than the joint immediately 

 preceding it, joint ten about one and a quarter mill. long. The only difficulty 

 in referring this insect to Say's (^, is the yellowish spot which he speaks of 

 behind the two thoracic vitiae; but the existence of such a spot on the thorax 

 is so contrary to the normal style of ornamentation in odonata, that it is pro- 

 bable that it was the spot on the base of the abdomen which he inadvertently 

 referred to. Dr. Hagen's (J^ agrees exactly in the antecubitals and postcubitals, 

 but has only " two obsolete yellow lines " on the pleura, instead of two well 

 developed yellow stripes. Both in Say's (J' and in Dr. Hagen's (J', the legs are 

 " black " or " immaculate." 



Epitheca princeps, Hagen, [occurred on the Des Plaines River.] Cordulia 

 LATERALIS (^ 9 Burm. I [The (^ has the anal angle of the posterior wings 

 acute, and it cannot therefore be an Fpitheea,} Pantala hymen.«;a (^ 9 Say! 

 [occurs both in North and South Illinois; not captured North of Texas since 

 Say's time; has the same migratory and social habits as Libellula quadrimacu- 

 lata, Linn., but unlike that species never alights to devour its prey, and is con- 

 sequently very difficult to capture ] Tramea lacerata, Hagen ! [occurs both in 

 North and South Illinois ] Celithemis eponina, Drury ! Celithemis elisa, Hagen. 

 [Referred to Diplaxhj Dr. Hagen, but I think erroneously. The pair I possess 

 were given me by my friend Mr. A. Bolter of Chicago, at which place he took 

 them.] Plathemis trimaculata, De Geer 1 [N. and S. Illinois.] Libellula 

 QDADRiMACULATA, Linn. 1 LiB. SEMiFASCiATA, Burm., [occurrcd on the Des Plaines 

 River.] Lib. luctuosa, Burm.! Lib. pdlchella, Drury! [N. and S. Illinois.] 

 Mesothemis simplicicollis, Say! Mes. corbopta, Hagen! [N. and S. Illinois.] 

 Mes. longipennis, Burm. ! Diplax \_assimilata, Ubler =] rcbiccndul.v, Say. 

 DiPL. viciNA, Hagen ! Dipl. semicincta, Say. Dipl. ambiqoa, Rambur. Dipl. 

 INTACTA, Hagen. 



I am satisfied that Diplax assimilaia, Uhler, (No. 1 of the Synopsis, and named 

 ossimilata for me by Dr. Hagen himself,) is the true ruhicnndula, Say, and that 

 Diplax No. 6, (^amhigua, Rbr.,) is erroneously identified with Say's species. Say 

 describes his ruhiciindula as occurring sometimes with the basal half of the 

 wings flavescent, which is true of No. 1, but untrue of No. 6. No. 6 positively 

 swarms at Rock Island every year about the last of August, and continues till 

 the frosts come; and although I have seen millions of specimens on the wing, 

 and have looked out two seasons for such variations, I never yet saw one with 

 the basal half of the wings even subflavescent. Again, Say gives one and a 

 half inch as the length of his species; now, that is the average length of 

 No. 1, whereas No. 6 averages only about one and a quarter inch, and is coustant 

 in size. Mr. Uhler, at the time he published his assimilata, had never, ae he has 

 informed me, seen any specimens with perfectly hyaline wings. I forwarded 

 snch to him last autumn, and I believe he now inclines to think that my view 

 of the subject is correct. The two species are distinguishable at once by No. 1 

 having both its anterior and intermediate femora posteriorly vittate with yel- 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



401 



low, while No. 6 has a posterior yellow vitta only on its anterior femora. It is 

 unfortunate that Say in his description should have said merely " feet black- 

 ish," which decides nothing either one way or the other. Thus by the brevity 

 of the descriptions of the early naturalists, their meaning often becomes an 

 enigma, and we are reduced to guessing and dogmatizing. And yet guessing 

 is not knowing, and faith is not science. There is a profound truth contained 

 in a MS. observation of Dr. Hagen's to me : — "A description of a new species 

 cannot possibly be too long ; it is always easy to curtail it, but often impossible 

 to lengthen it." 



RECAPITULATION. 

 Termitina. 

 Termes flavipes, Koll. 



PSOCINA. 



Psocus venosus, Burm. 



contaminatug, Hagen. 

 novae-scoti^e, Walk, 

 lichenatus, Uhler. 

 purus, n. sp. 

 semistriatus, n. sp. 

 perplexus, " 



pollutus, " 



amabilis, " 



geologus, " 



abruptus, Hagen. 

 corruptus, Hagen. 

 aurantiacus, Hagen. 



—13 sp. 



Perlina. 

 Pteronarcys nobilis, Hagen. 

 Acroneuria abnormis, Newm. 



" rupinsulensis, n. sp. 



Perla flavescens, n. sp. 

 " varians, " 

 " decipiens, " 

 " occipitalis ? Pict. 

 " producta, n. sp. 

 " fumipennnis, n. sp. 

 •' elongata, " 



Chloroperla bilineata? Say. 



" brunnipennis, n. sp. 



" nana, " 



— 13 sp. 

 Ephemerina. 

 Baetis femorata. Say, new imago. 

 " alternata. Say, new subimago. 

 " arida, Say, " 



'■ sicca, n. sp. 

 " debilis? Walk. Cat., " 

 Potamanthus cupidus, Say, new imago. 



" odonatus, n. sp. 



Palingenia vittigera, " 

 " limbata, Pictet. 



" bilineata. Say. 



" flavescens, n. sp. 



•' interpunctata. Say, new 



subimago. 



27 



Palingenia pulchella, n. sp. 



" terminata, " 



Ephemera decora, Walk. Cat. 



" flaveola, n. sp. 



Ephemerella (n. g.) excrucians, n. sp. 



" consimilis, " 



Bastisca (n. g.) obesa. Say, new imago. 

 Cloe ferruginea, n. sp. 

 " fluctuans, " 

 " unicolor, Hagen. 

 " vicina, Hagen, new subimago. 

 " dubia, n. sp. 

 " mendax, " 

 Caenis hilaris. Say, new subimago. 



— 26 sp. 

 Odonata (agrionina). 

 Calopteryx maculata, Beauv. 

 Hetaerina rupinsulensis, n. sp. 

 Lestes rectangularis, Say. 

 " unguiculata, Hagen. 

 " hamata, Hagen. 

 " forcipata, Rambur. 

 '•' eurina ? Say. 

 " intequalis, n. sp. 

 Agrion Irene, Hagen. 

 " ramburii, Selys. 

 " exsulans, Hagen. 

 " putridum, Hagen. 

 " apicale, Say. 

 " civile, Hagen. 



Hagen, MS. 



" binotatum 



n. sp. 



— 1(3 sp. 

 Odonata (^Eschnixa.) 

 Herpetogomphus rupinsulensis, n. sp. 

 Macrogomphus spiniceps, " 



Gomphus spinosus, Selys. 



" fraternus. Say. 



" vastus, Hagen MS., n. sp. 



" graslinellus, n. sp. 



" fluvialis, " 



" amnicola, " 

 Cordulegaster obliquus. Say. 

 Anax Junius, Drury. 

 ^schna clepsydra. Say. 



" constricta. Say. 



1862.] 




402 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEiMY OP 



^schna heros, Fabr. 



" pentacantha, Ramb. 



— 14 sp. 

 Odoxata (libellulina). 

 Macromia illinoiensis, n. sp. 



'' flavipennis, n. sp. 

 Epitheca princeps, Hagen. 

 Cordulia tenebrosa? Say. 



" lateralis Burm. 

 Pantala hymenaea, Say. 

 Tramea lacerata, Hajjen. 

 Celithemis eponina, Drury. 



'' elisa, Hagen. 



Plathemis trimaculata, De G. 

 Libellula quadrimaculata, Linn. 



" semifasciata, Burm. 



" luctuosa, Burm. 



" pulchella, Drury. 

 Mesothemis simplicicollis, Say. 

 Bock Island, llUnoii, July 25, 1862. 



Mesothemis corrupta, Hagen. 



" longipennis, Burm. 



Diplax rubicundula, Say. 

 '* vicina, Hagen, 

 " semicincta. Say. 

 " ambigua, Rarab. 

 " intacta, Hagen. 

 Perithenais domitia, Drury. 



—23 sp. 



Species. New. 



Termitina 1 



Psocina, 1.3 6 



Perlina, 13 19 



Epbemerina, 26 16 



Agrionina, 16 4 



.^schnina, 14 6 



Libellulina, 23 2 



106 



43 



Bsmarks on the Species composing the Genns FEOIOCAEIES, Baird. 

 BY D. G. ELLIOTT, F. Z. S. 



Intending, at no distant period, to publish a monograph of the Tetraoninje, 

 I have been led, by the introduction of an apparently new species of this 

 genus — (lately described by Dr. George Suckley, under the name of Pedio- 

 caetes Kennicotti, in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia, 1861) — to investigate its specific value, and compare it with our 

 common Sharp-tailed Grouse. The following are my conclusions : 



The bird commonly known as Tetrao phasianellus, has heretofore only been 

 found within the limits of the United States, and to this species, Ord, in 

 Guthrie's Geog. 2d American ed., 1815, p. 317, gave the appellation of Pha- 

 sianiis Columbianus, basing his description upon the Columbia Pheasant of 

 Lewis & Clark, ii. p. 180. This species then seemed to be the only one of 

 this genus existing in the new world, and as it also appeared to be the one — 

 (as far as the knowledge of American ornithologists extended, none of whom 

 had received any examples from without the limits of the Union)— to which, 

 long before, Linnaeus had given the name of phasianellus, and which Gmelin, 

 Bonaparte, Audubon and all others had retained ; so Prof. Baird, when he 

 instituted the present genus, also gave the same appellation as being the cor- 

 rect one of our well known Sharp-tailed Grouse. 



But in 1861 there arrived at the Smithsonian Institution, from Mr. Kennicott, 

 a number of Sharp-tailed Grouse, collected in the Hudson's Bay Company's 

 Territory, from Fort Rae and Big Island, the prevailing colors of which were 

 Wack and white, with very little, if any, of the brown hues, which constitute 

 the principal marks of our common bird. 



These examples, Dr. Suckley, after comparison with specimens, obtained 

 from the west and. northwest, very naturally considered distinct species, for 

 thej- certainly are, and thereupon described them as mir, as above mentioned. 



But now I find that this species from Arctic America, is the one originally 

 deseribed as Tetrao phasianellus, the United States species either being con- 

 sidered the " young with ferruginous plumage," vide Richardson in Faun. 

 Bor. Amer. , 1831, p. 861, or as a very light colored variety. 



Thus Bonaparte in his continuation of Wilson's Ornithology, gives a figure 

 of a specimen in the Philadelphia Academy, which, as he says, ''though a 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



feinale(?) and unusually light colored, ^re have had our drawing made, on 

 account of its having been procured in the American territory," while his 

 description is taken "from a handsome male specimen from Arctic America." 

 The genus Pediocaetes therefore is composed of the two following species, 

 with this diagnosis : 



General color white and brownish yellow with irregu- 

 lar black-markings. Beneath pure white, the feath- 

 ers on the breast and flanks with brown U-shaped 



markings. Throat buflf. Pediocaetes Columbianus. 



General color white and black, with irregular dark 

 brown markings. Beneath pure white, with V-shaped 

 black marks on the breast an.l sides, broader and 

 closer than those of its relative. Throat white in- 

 terspersed with small black marks Pediocaetes phasianellus. 



The species may be more fully described thus : 



Pediocaetes Columbia>xs (Ord.) Elliot. 

 Tetrao phasianellus? Ord. Guthrie's Geog., 21 Am. ed., 1815, p. 317. 

 Phasianus Cohimhianus, do. do. 



Tetrao phasianellus, Bon. Syn., 1828, p. 127. 



Do. " Am. Ornith., vol. iii. 1S2S, p. 37, pi. six. 



Do. Nuttall, Man. vol. i. 1S32, p. 669. 



Do. Audub. Ornith. Bio?., vol. iv. 1838, p. 569, pi. 382. 



Do. " Syn. 1839^ p. 205. 



Do. " Birds of Amer., vol. v. 1842, p. 110, pi. 298. 



Do. Newberry, Cal. & Or. Route. Rep. P. R. R. Surv., vol. 



vi. iv. 1857, p. 94. 

 Tetrao {Cenirocercus) phasianellus. Swain, Faun. Bor. Am., vol. ii. 1831, p.361. 

 Do. Bonp. Comptes Rendus, xlv. 1857, p. 428. 



Tetrao urophasianellus, Doug. Trans. Linn. Societ., vol. xvi. 1829, p. 136. 

 Pediocaetes phasianellus, Baird, vol. ix. P. R. R. R., p. 626. 



Head and throat brownish yellow, the front, crown, occiput and cheeks 

 irregularly marked with black or very dark brown ; superciliary band whitish ; 

 Ijack ferruginous brown, variously spotted with black or brownish yellow : 

 wings brownish grey, with large ppots of white on all the coverts ; transverse 

 bai-3 on the secondaries, and the outer we1)3 of the primaries which are dark 

 brown, spotted with the same ; the tail feathers have the inner web white, 

 outer brownish gray, dotted with darlver brown ; the central feathers are elon- 

 gated and same color as the back— under parts are pure white, the feathers on 

 the breast and flanks having a brown U-shaped mark. Bill black ; feet brown. 

 Bah. — Northern prairies from Wisconsin to Oregon andWasliington territories. 



Pediocaetes phasianellus, (Linn.) Elliott. 

 Tetrao phasianellus, Linn. Syst. Nat., vol. i. 10 ed., 1758, p. 160. 



Do. Forst. Philos. Trans., Ixii. 1772, p. 394 and 495. 



Do. Gmelin Syst. Nat., vol. i. p. 747. 



Do. Lath. Ind. Ornith., vol. ii. p. 635. 



Tetrao urogallus, var. B., Linn. Syst. Nat., vol. i. ed. 12th, p. 273. 

 Tetrao phasianellus, Bon. Amer. Ornith., vol. iii. 1828, text (j^. Sharp-tailed 



Grouse. Pennant. 

 Pediocaetes Kennicotti, Suckley, Proc. A. Nat. Sc, 1861. 



General color black. Top of head black, a few faint marks of rusty towards 

 the occiput, sides of head black, the feathers tipped with white ; those on the 

 side and back of neck tipped with rusty ; throat white, spotted with black. 

 The back is also black, the feathers margined with rufous brown ; the rump 

 is lighter, caused by the feathers being tipped broadly with grayish ; the 

 elongated central feathers of the tail are (in the specimen before me) jet 

 black, irregularly crossed with yellowish white and gray. Wings blackish 

 brown, with large white spots on all the coverts, in addition to the rusty 



1862.1 




•104 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



margms of the feathers ; primaries blackish with white marks on their outer 

 webs. Tail sometimes grayish at the base with white tips, or pure white. 

 Under parts pure white, with a black V-shaped mark near the centre of the 

 feathers on the breast and flanks, gradually growing smaller and fainter, as 

 they approach the abdomen an I vent. The white feathers of the legs are 

 hair-like and extend over the toes quite to the nails. Bill black ; feet dark 

 brown. 



Habitat. — Arctic America, plentiful around Hudson's Bay, but never found 

 within the limits of the United States. 



Supplementary note to a " Synopsis of the North American Forms of tho 

 COLYMBID.E and PODICEPIDiE." 



BY ELLIOTT COUES. 



Since the publication of my paj)er on the Loons and Grebes of North Amer- 

 ica, the Smithsonian Institution has received, from J. Hepburn, Esq., of San 

 Francisco, California, what has long been a great desideratum in its collec- 

 tions, a specimen of uEchmophorus Clarkti in full plumage. The intere.'^t 

 attaching to the elucidation of this hitherto undetermined question in Amer- 

 ican ornithology induces me to offer the following brief notice of the points iii 

 which the nuptial dress differs from the ordinary well known winter plumage. 

 The specimen alluded to, Mr. Hepburn states, was shot in the latter part of 

 April, and is a female. 



^CHMOPHORus Clakkii, Coues. — (Adult female, breeding plumage.) — Tlie 

 chrome yellow of the under mandible, and of the tip and cutting edges of the 

 upper, is very bright, and in marked contrast with the quite pure black of 

 the culmen. The bare loral space is leaden blue. The crown, occiput, and 

 neck behind are very deep grayish black, almost pure black on the occiput, 

 and fading gradually along the neck, into the blackish gray of the back and 

 tipper parts generally, which color is scarcely, if at all, deeper than in the 

 average of winter specimens. The white space between the eye and bill is 

 very broad, and remai'kably pure. The throat, neck before, and whole under 

 parts are of a beautiful silky white, the line of demarcation of the black and 

 white on the sides of the head and neck being remarkably distinct. There is 

 <r. decided occipital crest ; the feathers of that region are about one inch in 

 length, and have the peculiar filiform character common to the crests of birds 

 of this family. This crest, however, on the dried skin lies quite smoothly, 

 and is not very conspicuous except on raising the feathers. There are no 

 decided colored ruffs ; but the white feathers of the sides of the head posteriorly, 

 and across the throat, are longer and fuller than elsewhere, particularly the 

 former. Although this elongation is hardly noticeable in the dried skin, it is 

 doubtless sufiicient to give to the bird when in life something of the appear- 

 ance presented by most of the species of this family. In other respects the 

 specimen before me does not differ materially from the winter series. 



I have always been of opinion that the two birds which I have recently 

 separated generically from Podiceps would not possess the conspicuous colored 

 rufl's for which the type of the genus (P. cristatus) is so noted. The suppo- 

 sition to that effect, doubtfully set forth in my last paper, is now verified in 

 the case of one of the species of the genus, and I have no doubt that the nup- 

 tial plumage of ^Echmophorus occidental is will be perfectly analogous to that 

 exhibited by the species under consideration. 



A specimen of Podiceps (Proctopiis) californicus, in full summer plumage, 

 has also been received from Mr. Hepburn. It presents the same marked dif- 

 ferences from the European P. aitritus as do all the other specimens from IS'orth 

 America which have fallen under my observation ; and is additional confirma- 

 tion of the position assumed with regard to the specific distinction of the 

 American and European birds. They are quite distinct species and recogni- 

 zable in either adult or young plumage. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



Descriptions of Fossils from the Marshall and Huron Groups of Michigan.* 



BY ALEXANDER WINCHELL. 



Cbntronella, Billings. 



Cextronella Julia, n. sp. — Shell small, nearly circular, ranging from 

 slightly elongate to transverse, and squarely rounded ; botli valves with regu- 

 lar lens-like convexity, sometimes with a gentle ridge running the length of 

 the ventral valve, and a slight sinuation near the margin of the dorsal. 

 Ventral valve with a moderate beak, circularly foraminated, turned up at 

 a right angle, covering the beak of its fellow. Area entirely wanting. Shell 

 obsoletely striate concentrically, and having a minutely punctate structure, 

 Apophysary system as follows : A delicate ribbon-like loop originates from the 

 stout blunt crura of each side of the socket valve, having its flat sides at first 

 vertical ; the two branches of the loop proceed at first in lines parallel or a 

 little convergent, and then gradually diverge, widening as they proceed, and 

 assuming an inclined position, until, approaching the front of the valve by a 

 regular curvature, the lower edge has become anterior, giving the band an 

 angle of 30= with the plane of the shell ; approaching the median line the 

 band rapidly widens, and the front margin is drawn forward in a long acu- 

 mination, while the inner margin is regularly concave, except that near the 

 median line it turns abruptly forward so as to meet that line at an acute angle. 

 The loop thus forms an urceolate figure on its inner margin, and on the outer 

 a somewhat oval one truncated behind and attenuately acuminate before. In 

 the median line where the two branches meet, both are suddenly deflected 

 downwards, forming a double vertical plate, not quite reaching the ventral 

 valve, the upper edge of which, when viewed from the side, is flatly roof- 

 shaped, while the lower edge describes two convexities, the greater, anterior, 

 leaving a notch between them. Tlie surfaces of the loop and median plate 

 are covered with minute obliquely conical pustules, in some places seeming 

 to become spiuulous. The casts exhibit on the ventral side a delicate im- 

 pressed line extending from the beak to the middle, and on the right and left 

 of this a fainter one ; on the dorsal side a median impression with two fainter 

 ones on the right, and two on the left — the median terminating rostrally upon 

 a small pyramidal process (filling the beak of this valve) separated by a short 

 slit (made by the socket ridge) from a smaller isolated process on each side. 



Length, breadth and thickness of an average specimen : '31 (100), '29 (94) 

 and -15 (4S).t 



L-ic ility. — Grindstone quarries, Pt. aux Barques, in a conglomeritic ferru- 

 ginous sandstone overlying the gritstones of the Marshall Group. Abundant. 



Spirifera, Sowerby. 



Spirifera subattenpata, Hall. — Iowa Rep., p. 504, pi. 10, fig, 3. Comp. 

 Owen Rep. on Iowa, Wis., &c., pi. iii. fig. 9. 

 Our specimens agree with the figures and descriptions of Hall. 

 Localiti/. — Light-house Pt. aux Barques, with Spirifera Huronensis. 



*For a description of the rocks of these groups see the author's Report on the Geology 

 of the Lower Peninsula of Michigan, 1860; also SiUiman's Journal for May, 1862. 



Descriptions of 26 species of Cephalopoda from these two groups were published in the 

 number of SiUiman's Journal just referred to; and descriptions of most of the Gastero- 

 poda and Lamellibranchiata of the present paper were sent for publication on the 1st of 

 April last, since which time further discoveries and investigations have extended my no- 

 tice of the paleontology of these interesting groups to its present limits, and I have for 

 this reason obtained permission of the editors of SiUiman's Journal to offer the whole for 

 publication together, to the Phil. Acad, of Nat. Sciences. 



t The measurements in this paper are given in inches. The numbers in parenthesis 

 are the relative measurements— that which is generally greatest being assumed 100. 



1862.] 28 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Spirifera medialis (?) Hall.— Rep. IVth Dist. N. Y., p. 208, fig. 5 ; lOtb 

 Eep. N. Y. Reg., p. 164. 

 Locality. — Light-house, Pt, aux Barques, with S. Huronensis. 



Spirifera Huronensis, n. sp. — Shell of medium size, transversely semi-el- 

 liptic, with acuminate hinge-extremities ; entire hinge-length nearly three times 

 the length of the shell; anterior and antero-lateral borders regularly curved. 

 Ventral valve ventricose, especially towards the beak, which is erect over a 

 high, triangular area, triangularly foraminated to tlie apex ; sinus beginning 

 near the beak, not well defined, round at its margins and bottom ; entire sur- 

 face covered with about forty rounded ribs, of which the lateral half on each 

 side terminate upon the cardinal border, while about four, of the same size as 

 their neighbors, occupy the sinus. Dental plates standing at an angle of 58'^. 

 Dorsal valve equally tumid with the ventral ; beak incurved over a narrow 

 area ; mesial fold indistinct, with three or four ribs ; occlusor and pedicle 

 scars lanceolate, deep. Surface of shell with one or two squamous incremen- 

 tal lines. 



Length of shell, -49 (100) ; length of hinge line 1-3(265) ; convexity of ven- 

 tral valve -25 (50). 



Locality. — Light-house Pt. aux Barques, in a hard, gray, pyritous, coar?e, 

 often conglomeritic bed of sandstone two feet thick, intercalated in the argilla- 

 ceous slates of the Huron group. 



Spirifera pharovicina, n. sp. — Shell large and ventricose. Ventral valve 

 with a gentle sinuatiou which extends to the beak ; dental plates moderately 

 long, forming an angle of 80" ; area very elevated, with a narrow triangular 

 fissure reaching to the apex, which scarcely overhangs the area ; surface 

 faintly marked each side of the sinus by rather remote radiating ribs, which, 

 near the margin, are somewhat distinct. Some impressions of areas supposed 

 to belong to this species, are 2-1 long, and -95 high, with a fissure -44 wide at 

 base • deltoidal impression grooved in the direction of the fissure ; surface ol 

 area flat, slightly incurved at apex and marked by very distinct transverse 

 striffi. Dorsal valve with a low rounded fold, marked (in the cast) by a sin- 

 gle small median groove ; beak prominent, incurved over a small area. 



Locality. — Light-house, Pt. aux Barques, with Rhynchonella Hiironensi!:, 

 Spcrifera Uuronensis, SfC. 



This well marked species is known only by imperfect casts. 



Spirifera (?) iNSOLiTA, n. sp. — Shell large, smooth. Ventral valve with a 

 broad concave sinus reaching to the beak, and forming at its lateral margins 

 angles with the shell surface ; area short and imperfectly bounded, though 

 the beak is rather high ; dental plates very long, reaching the middle of the 

 shell or beyond, and forming with each other an angle of 25'^, which is the 

 same as the rostral angle of the mesial sinus. 



Locality. — Light-house, Pt. aux Barques. 



This species has the short hinge line of Brachythyris, and the smooth 

 surface of Martinia — characters which, with the very long and approximate 

 dental plates render it unique among Spirifera?. 



Retzia, King. 



Retzia polyplecra, n. sp.— Shell of medium size or rather large, caneate- 

 oval, tumid. Ventral valve with a prolonged, isolated, nearly erect, perfor- 

 .ate beak, which projects one-fourth the valve length beyond the dorsal valve, 

 a swollen umbo, and depressed central and anterior region. Dorsal valve ro- 

 tund, with a subcuneate rostral margin ; beak obtuse, closely appressed 

 against the ventral valve ; umbo ventricose ; entire valve with a regular car- 

 dinm-like convexity ; median ridge extending one-third the length of the 

 valve, with a lanceolate occlusor impression on each side of it. Surface 

 marked bv about forty small rounded radiating ribs. Spires not seen. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



Length, breadth and thickness of a rather small specimen : '70 (100). "58 

 (83), and -34 (50). Length of dorsal valve '52 (74.) Length and breadth of 

 another dorsal valve '69 and '66 



Locality. — Light-house, Pt. aux Barques with Rhynchonella Huronennn, &?. 



This species resembles R. serpentina, de Kon. (Anim. Foss., 291, pi. xix. 8), 

 but the ventral valve is most ventricose in the umbonal instead of the midale 

 region, and has a nearly erect instead of a straight beak. It differs from Ji. 

 vera, Hall (Iowa Rep. 704, pi. xxvii. 3), in the absence of wings, and in its 

 more erect beak. 



Merista, Suess. 



Merista HoncsHTONi, n. sp. — Shell of medium size, subrotund and subtumid. 

 Ventral valve a little produced at the straight, obtuse foraminated beak ; 

 somewhat truncate in its contour, along the cardinal slopes, and very slightly 

 elongate in front across the width of the sinus ; regularly convex in all di- 

 rections from the middle, except along the shallow sinus, which takes its origin 

 near the middle of the valve. Impressions of the divaricator muscles longi- 

 tudinally striate. Dorsal valve circular; beak scarcely projecting beyond the 

 hinge ; occlusor impressions small, spatulate, separated by a rostral septum 

 reaching one-fourth the length of the valve ; mesial fold represented by an 

 undulation at the anterior margin. Surface of cast smooth. 



Length, breadth and thickness -70 (100), -68 (97) and -36 (51). 



Localiti/. — Light-house, Pt. aux Barques, with Rh/jnchonella H'/ronensis, &c. 



Ryxchoxella, Fischer de Waldheim. 



Rhynchonella Sageriajta, n. sp. — Shell of medium size, somewhat quad- 

 rantal in outline, rather tumid. Ventral valve not seen. Dorsal valve in the 

 older specimens with a prominent and inflected beak, and about 16 obtuse 

 plications, some of the central ones showing a groove on the summit toward 

 the margin, as if preparatory to bifurcation. Mesial fold consisting of two or 

 three plications just perceptibly raised above the others in the vicinity of the 

 anterior margin. 



Length, -56 (100) ; breadth -60 (107) ; convexity of dorsal valve '23 (41). 



Locality. — Marshall, in the Marshall sandstone. 



Rhtnchonella Weitei, n. sp. — Shell small, sub-circular. Dorsal valve sab- 

 tumid, with the greatest elevation at one-third the distance from beak to an- 

 terior margin ; cardinal slopes slightly convex, terminating in subalate spaces 

 which descend from the umbo ; lateral and anterior margins circularly rounded. 

 Surface marked by about 17 rounded, moderately elevated ribs. Mesial ele- 

 vation entirely wanting, or barely perceptible, and embracing about two of 

 the plications. Median septum present, little developed. 



Length of dorsal valve "38 (100) ; breadth -45 (119) , convexity -10 (2G). 



Locality. — Marshall. 



Rhynchoxella Hobbakdi, n. sp. — Shell small, subquadrantal in outline ; 

 cardinal slopes straight, forming aright angle or more; lateral extremities 

 about midway of the shell ; anterior border gently curved ; die two valves 

 equally convex ; ventral valve most tumid near the beak, the dorsal in the 

 middle. Surface marked by 21 small rounded radiating plications. Mesial 

 sinus represented by a broad shallow flattening of the mid-frontal slope of the 

 ventral valve, occupying the two middle-fourths of its width, and correspond- 

 ing to 8 or 9 plications. No fold perceptibla in the dorsal valve, but a shal- 

 low depression extends from the beak about one-third the length of the shell, 

 corresponding to the extent of the median partition beneath it. Dental plates 

 of the ventral valve well developed, diverging at an angle of about 30-''. Shell 

 thin, fibrous. 



Length of a vflntral valve -20 (100) ; breadth -31 (119) ; convexity, -08 (31). 



1862^ 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Localities.— MuTshsW and the grindstone qtiarriea at Pt. auxBarqnes, be- 

 longing to the Marshall group. 



The dorsal valve greatly resembles that of jR. circularis. 



Rhtnchonella Marshallensis, n. sp. — Shell of medium size ; dorsal valre 

 very ventricose, with the middle region somewhat flattened, and all the mar- 

 gins abruptly deflected — the anterior at nearly right angles ; beak prominent, 

 obtuse, incurved ; cardinal slopes short, making with each other an angle of 

 about 100°. Surface of valve marked by about 27 medium-sized rounded, 

 radiating plications, two or three of which are implanted on each lateral ex- 

 tremity, some of the plications reaching the beak. A shallow mesial fold 

 rises in about the middle of the valve and embraces seven plications. The 

 mesial septum extends about one- eighth the length of the valve. 



Length of the dorsal valve -58 (100) ; breadth -62 (107 ; convoxity, -30 (52). 



Locality. — Marshall. 



Ehynchokella camerifeea, n. sp. — Shell of moderate size, tumid ; beak of 

 ventral valve projecting and slightly upturned ; cardinal slopes straight, at 

 right angles ; sides of the shell rounded ; front margin similarily rounded or 

 somewhat straight, not unfrequently produced on one side of the mesial sinus. 

 Dorsal valve nearly circular, a little more convex than the ventral, most con- 

 vex anterior to the middle, and rather abruptly bent down in front. Ventral 

 valve with a shallow sinus, which extends back about one-fourth the length 

 of the valve, corresponding to the fold in the dorsal valve ; most convex be- 

 tween the beak and the middle ; dental plates parallel, well developed ; teeth 

 at right angles, elongate, growing stouter anteriorly, with handsomely crenu- 

 lated margins ; mesial partition of the dorsal valve, extending nearly one half 

 its length, thickening near the beak, to give space for the excavation of a 

 small chamber within the septum. Shell with 20 or 21 (a variety ? with 16) 

 sharp plications, of which three or four are comprised in the mesial sinus ; 

 these are croSsed by a few squamulose concentric wrinkles ; shell structure 

 fibrous. 



LenE;th of an average specimen 'SS (100) ; breadth "34 (90) ; thickness, 

 •19 (50). 



Locality. — Pt. aux Barques, in a conglomeritic ferruginous sandstone over- 

 lying the gritstones of the Marshall group — myriads of casts sometimes form- 

 ing, with Centronella Julia, the whole mass of the rock. 



i'he small chamber in the mesial septum of the dorsal valve is an interest- 

 ing and unique character. On a similar cameration of the septnm of the ven- 

 tral valve of some Cyrtise the genus Cyrtina has been founded ; and Professor 

 King established his Camarophoria on the formation of an arch in the ventral 

 valve by the approximation of the dental plates. 



This species has the external appearance of the young of it. incuebescens, 

 but, amongst thousands, none attain proportions very difl'erent from those 

 given above. 



Rhynchonella bakquensis, n. sp. — Shell small, transversely oval, thin. 

 Ventral valve with a moderately prominent beak and slightly curved cardinal 

 slopes ; greatest tumidity near the beak, from which the surface descends in 

 a nearly right plane to the anterior margin, and with little convexity to the 

 right and left margins. Dorsal valve flattish, most inflated in the middle. 

 Mesial fold and sinus small, traceable one fifth or sixth the length of the shell, 

 embracing two or three sharp plications, of which the entire surface of each 

 valve receives abont 1 2 or 13. Dental plates of ventral valve parallel ; me- 

 sial septum of dorsal valve camerated as in R. camerifera. 



Length -30 (100) ; breadth -32 (107) ; thickness -13 (43). 



Locality. — Grindstone quarries, Pt. aux Barques, with R. camerifera. 



Rhtnchonella suBciRCPLABis, D. sp. — Shell Small, cuneate-rotund, subtumid. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCESOP PHILADELPHIA, 409 



Veutral valve unknown. Dorsal valve with a blunt depressed beak, equalling 

 the hinge, a moderately elevated umbo from which the surface slopes with 

 gentle convexity to the lateral and anterior margins, and abruptly, with 

 slight excavation, towards the superior portion of the rounded hinge-margins. 

 Surface marked by about 32 fine rounded plications, which reach from the 

 margin half way to the beak. Mesial fold wanting. Mesial septum extending 

 one-fifth the length of the shell. 



Length of dorsal valve -25 (100) ; breadth -25 (100) ; convexity -03 (34). 



Zoca/%.— Grindstone quarries, P. aux Barques, with R. camerifera. 



This species is a close analogue of R. radialis, Phillips, sp. (Geol. Yorks. 

 223, pi. xii. 40, 41) from the carboniferous limestone of Bollard. 



Rhtnchoxella Hukoxensis, n. sp. — Shell of medium size, tumid, transversely 

 oval, or nearly circular, with rounded lateral, and cuneate rostral margins. 

 Ventral valve with a straight beak, flattened in the central region, and rather 

 abruptly inflected around the margin, toward the plane of the valve ; mesial 

 sinus beginning with the last third of the shell-length, and consisting of a 

 sudden depression in the antero-marginal slope. Dental lamellcC well devel- 

 oped, very slightly divergent. Dorsal valve with an inconspicuous beak and 

 a mesial fold abruptly elevated and confined to the anterior third of the valve. 

 Median septum reaching two-fifths the length of the valve. Occlusor muscu- 

 lar impressions, semi-elliptic, lying close to the median septum. Shell-struc- 

 ture fibrous. Surface marked with 23 small rounded ribs, of which five occupy 

 the mesial sinus. 



Length of the ventral valve '48(100); breadth -58 (121); convexity '10 

 (21). 



Locality. — Light-house, Pt. aux Barques, in a hard pyritous sandstone in- 

 tercalated in the argillaceous slates of the Huron group. 



Var. precipua differs from the typical forms in being more flattened on the 

 ventral side, with mesial sinus consisting of an abrupt deflection of nearly the 

 whole anterior margin of the valve, forming a right angle with the plane of the 

 valve ; surface with 18 rounded radiating ribs, of which 6 fall in the sinus ; 

 dental plates diverging at an angle of 40^. 



OnTHis, Dalman. 



Orthis Vam-xemi, Hall (10th Ann. Rep. N. Y. Reg., p. 135). -Shell nearly cir- 

 cular, sub-tumid ; hinge-line very short. Dorsal valve a segment of a sphere ; 

 beak not surpassing the hinge, slightly incurved ; a thick median plate or 

 ridge reaching nearly to the centre of the valve, bisecting the right angle 

 formed by the well developed socket ridges. Ventral valve flat, or slightly 

 concave anteriorly, with a projecting beak ; median ridge feeble, extending 

 scarcely to the mid-valve ; a barely perceptible trace of the semi-circular 

 divaricator impressions sweeping from the beak to the anterior extremity of 

 the median ridge, in the middle of which space are the two small semi-elliptic 

 occlusor scars ; dental plates short and thick ; teeth well developed, lying in 

 the hinge-line. One of the casts diflers in having one of the occlusor scars 

 half heart-shaped and the dental plates more slender. Surface not fully 

 known : marked by numerous radiating striae which increase by implantation 

 and bifurcation, and produce a crenulated anterior margin. Shell structure 

 finely punctate. 



Length -SI (100) ; breadth -81 (100) ; thickness -25 (31). 



Locality. — Light-house, Pt. aux Barques, with Rht/nchonella IIuroneti.<is, ^-c. 



This shell is a little more convex in the dorsal and flatter in the ventral than 

 the figures given by Prof. Hall, but none of its characters differ materially 

 from his description. Compared with 0. Michelini, Lev., as described by de 

 Koninck, it is a little more convex dorsally, and presents circular instead of 

 digitate [from the vascular system ?] divaricator impressions upon the ventral 



1862.] 




410 rROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



valve. 0. Vunuxemi is described from the shales and shalj sandstones of the 

 Hamilton group of New York and Iowa, the lithographic limestones of Mis- 

 souri, and from the soft sandstones in Eastern Ohio, regarded as Chemung by 

 Prof. Hall. 



Orthis CRENisTEiA ? Phillips. (Pal. Foss. Corn. &c., j). 66, pi. 27, fig. 113). — 

 Hinge line equalling greatest width of shell ; ventral valve semi-elliptic with shal- 

 low constrictions beneath the cardinal extremities ; flat, with an umbonal ele- 

 vation beginning about the middle and rising to a beak which overlooks a large 

 triangular area inclined at an angle of 45° with the shell-plane ; dental plates 

 strong, each equalline: one-fourth the hinge length, forming with each other an 

 angle of about 60°. Occlusor scars reaching nearly the middle of the shell, 

 closely contiguous, leaving together a ligulate anteriorly acute depression upon 

 the cast. Surface covered by fine radiating strise, interrupted by distinct or 

 obscure concentiic wrinkles. In one specimen supposed to belong here, the 

 surface is covered by a set of sharply-cut, twice-dichotomizing strise — the 

 second set reaching half way, and tiie third one-third the distance to the beak. 

 Dorsal valve hemispherically convex with sharp striaj and concentric wrinkles, 

 like the ventral. 



Length of shell 1*27 (100) ; length of hinge line 1-37 (107) : length of den- 

 tal plates -32 (25). 



Localitij. — Light-house, Pt. aux Barques. 



I can make no distinction between this species and that described by Phil- 

 lips, from South Devon. The beak, however, seems to be perfectly symmetri- 

 cal, and in this it differs from Streptorhynchus robusta, Hall, sp., from the coal 

 measures of Iowa, as well as from the Punjab examples of Davidson (Quar. 

 .Tour. Geol. Soc. Lond., xviii. p. 30), who identifies the Devon, Iowa and Pun- 

 jab forms. The Michigan forms differ from all the others in the rugose ex- 

 terior, giving it sometimes the aspect of Strcqthomena rugaa ; but as they at the 

 same time differ among themselves, I am not disposed to hesitate in the iden- 

 tification. 



Orthis Ioweksis ? Hall. (lo. Rep., 488, pi. 2, fig. 4.) — Some casts in my 

 possession resemble those of the above species. Ventral valve nearly circu- 

 lar, regularly convex, with deep pit in the beak between the dental plates, 

 which in the cast produces a conical projection. Middle region of cast with 

 three faint rounded ridges radiating from the beak to the anterior margin. 



Lo.alilij. — Light house, Pt. aux Barques. 



Chonetes, Fischer. 



Chonetes pulciiella, n. sp. — Shell small, nearly semi-circular; hinge al- 

 most equalling the greatest width, rectangular at the extremities, furnished 

 with two or three stout hollow spines on each side of the beak, one projecting 

 from the hinge extremity, and diverging at an angle of about 22° with the 

 hinge line — the second half way to the beak and diverging at an angle of 45°, 

 each of these spines having a length equal to half the hinge line. Ventral 

 valve, exclusive of the flattened hinge angles, spherically convex ; internal me- 

 dian ridge extending to the middle of the valve. Surface with about 54 feeble, 

 rounded ribs, often nearly obsolete on the hinge angles ; these are crossed by 

 numerous microscopic, concentric strise ; the grooves beneath the ribs are 

 acute and bear a few spinous projections near the shell margin. Dorsal valve 

 nearly flat, generally a little concave near the margin, marked like its fellow 

 with radiating strise, and often a few concentric folds. Area very narrow, 

 equally excavated in the two valves. Some specimens exhibit a shorter hinge 

 line, and a flatter ventral valve, elevated only iu the umbonal region, with a 

 beak projecting slightly beyond the hinge. 



Length -30 (100) ; breadth "38 (12G) ; convexity of ventral valve -07 (23). 



Localities. — Hillsdale county at Moscow, N. W. ^, N. W. ^. Sec. 4, Jefferson, 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



and S. W. I, S. W.J, Sec. 26, Allen. These localities are all in tlie lower part 

 of the Marshall sandstone. 



The variety of this species somewhat resembles C. Michiganensis, Stevens. 

 (Sill. Jour. [2] XXV. p. 263), but the spines and ribs are much less numerous, 

 not to speak of the alleged direction of the spines in Dr. Stevens' species. 



Chonetes setigeka ? Hall. (Geol. Rep. 4th Dist. N. Y., p. 180; 10th Rep. 

 K. Y. Regents, p. 150). — Shell small, semicircular, flattened; hinge line 

 slightly less than greatest width ; ventral valve regularly convex, except upon 

 the flattened hinge angles; median ridge feeble; hinge with two (perhaps 

 three) strong diverging spines each side of the beak; dentigerous plate with 

 four tooth-like elevations each side of the beak, slightly elongated in a direc- 

 tion at right angles with the cardinal spines. Surface marked by about 80 

 minute diverging strite, obsolete except near the border, and sometimes one or 

 two distinct concentric wrinkles. Dorsal valve slightly concave, striated nearly 

 to the beak. 



Length -25 (100) : breadth -36 (145) convexity of ventral valve -04 (16). 



Locality. — Union, Branch county, in argillaceous shales of the Huron 

 group. 



This species differs from the New York specimens of C. setigera in the in- 

 clination of its spines, and the much greater number of radiating striae. 



Proddcta, Sowerby. 



Phodccta coxcentrica. Hall. (Iowa Geol. Rep., p. 517, pi. vii. fig. 3; 10th 

 Rep. N. Y. Reg. p. 180.) — All my «pecimens of this species from the southern 

 part of the State exhibit, like the Iowa ones, only the inside of the concave 

 valve. On the other hand, fragments of a species supposed to be the same, 

 from the grindstone quarries at Ft. aux Barques, present only the exterior of 

 the convex valve, a circumstance which may throw suspicion on the identifi- 

 cation of the two sets of forms. 



Myalina, de Koninck. 



Myalina Michiganexsis, n. sp. — Shell of medium size, oblique, equivalve, 

 inflated, posteriorly winged, with a straight hinge line. Beaks compressed, 

 acute, incurved, and slightly directed forward, but little elevated above the 

 hinge line ; posterior margin very slightly concave below the extremity of the 

 hinge ; thence describing a semi-circle or more to the middle of the anterior 

 margin, where a deep incurvation exists, bounded by a small pouch-like ex- 

 pansion which projects a little anterior to the beaks. Anterior umbonal slope 

 somewhat vertical to the shell-plane ; the posterior gradual, towards the mar- 

 gin becoming nearly parallel with the same plane. Hinge furnished in the 

 left valve with two small, curved diverging teeth just anterior to the beaks ; 

 behind the beaks a narrow ligamental area extends the whole length of the 

 hinge ; this area is marked by three longitudinal slightly diverging furrows — 

 the outer parallel with the hinge line and co-extensive with it, the middle 

 reaching the inner border of the ligamental area at two-thirds the distance 

 from the beak to the hinge extremity, the third meeting the same border still 

 nearer the beak. Surface marked by irregular, fine incremental lines, some of 

 which are more deeply impressed. 



Greatest dimension of shell from beak to ventral margin along the umbonal 

 slope 1*25 (100) ; angle incluiled between this line and hinge line 50° ; diame- 

 ter of shell from umbo to umbo -TS (62) ; length of hinge "67 (53) ; angle 

 formed by hinge line and posterior margin 112° — 120° ; projection of shell an- 

 terior to the beaks, -19 (15). 



Localities. — Marshall (abundant), Moscow; This interesting species resem- 

 bles M. virgula, de Kon. (An. Foss. 127, pi. vi. 3). It is, however, less oblique, 

 less indented on the posterior border, and more prominent in front of the 

 umbo. 



1862.] 




412 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Myalina imbricaria, n. sp. — Shell rather small, very oblique, inflated. 

 Beak (of left vaWe) compressed, acute, incurved, scarcely rising above the 

 hinge ; posterior margin straight, making a very obtuse angle with the hinge 

 line ; ventral margin regularly curved ; anterior, with a rather deep sinus a 

 little above the middle, and a slight projection in front of the umbo. Hinge 

 line straight, equal to the greatest antero-posterior dimension of the shell. 

 Umbo abruptly convex on both sides, but posteriorly blending with the flat- 

 tened expansion below the hinge. Surface strongly marked by imbricating 

 lamellfe. 



Length along the umbonal slope about 1*04 (100) ; this line forms with the 

 hinge line an angle of 29° ; length of hinge line '70 (67) ; angle formed with 

 posterior border 53° ; projection of anterior margin beyond the beak "07 f67). 



Locality. — Moscow, Hillsdale county, in the Marshall sandstone. 



This species differs from its analogue M. lamellosa, de Kon. (An. Foss. 126, 

 pi. iii. 6) by its sharper posterior angulation, and deep anterior sinus in the 

 margin. 



Myalina aviculoides. — Shell small, obliqne, with subcentral beaks scarcely 

 rising above the straight hinge line. Right valve unknown ; left produced 

 anteriorly just beneath the hinge ; anterior margins parallel, forming an angle 

 of about 70° with the hinge line ; midumbonal slope forming the same angle, 

 having its anterior declivity convex, its posterior at first convex, then slightly 

 excavated, giving an extended appearance to the posterior margin, but with- 

 out any perceptible isolation of a posterior wing ; ventral margin regularly 

 curved. Surface marked by faint incremental lines. 



Length along umbonal slope "34 (100) ; length of hinge liue '31 (91) ; 

 greatest anteio-posterior dimension "32 (94). 



Locality, — Marshall. 



Myalina PTEEiNEiEFORMis, n. sp. — Shell small, eqnivalve, obliquely elongate, 

 with an alate posterior expansion, which is suddenly thickened above to form 

 the basis of the straight elongated hinge line. Beaks subterminal, obtuse, 

 incurved, elevated a little above the hinge ; midumbonal slope making an 

 angle of about 35° with the dorsal margin ; from the upper portion the de- 

 clivity is steep to the hinge on the posterior side, while on the anterior side 

 the shell swells out into a sort of pouch, projecting beyond the beak ; poste- 

 rior margin of shell showing a sinuation just below the hinge, from which a 

 regular curve sweeps around to the anterior side. Shell thin, with fine in- 

 cremental lines. 



Length of shell along dorsal margin -44 (100) ; length from beak along 

 midumbonal slope "38 (8(j) ; distance from beak to anterior extremity, 

 •10 (22) ; to posterior -34 (78); diameter of shell through umbo -12 (24). 



Localitij. — Pt. aux Barques, from a friable and ferruginous sandstone over- 

 lying the grindstones. 



Pterinea, Goldfuss. 



Pterinea cardinata, n. sp. — Shell small, hinge line extremely elongate, 

 posteriorly terminating in an angle of 40°, separated by a slight sinuation 

 from the body of the shell ; ventral margin transversely semi-elliptic ; ante- 

 rior wing short, saccate ; anterior margin forming with dorsal line an angle 

 of about 45°. Beak flattened, not elevated above the hinge ; umbonal slope 

 terminating at the middle of the ventral border, opposite which is the greatest 

 width of the shell ; descent from the umbonal slope to the antero-ventral bor- 

 der very abrupt. Surface of cast showing numerous faint concentric grooves 

 which are most conspicuous in the postumbonal region. 



Length of hinge "65 (100) ; greatest width of shell '21 (32) ; convexity of 

 right valve "06 (9) ; length of anterior wing -06 (9). 



Locality, — Grindstone quarry, Pt. aux Barques, with Rhynchonella camcri- 

 fcra, &c. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



This species differs from P. elongata, Goldf. (Petref. Germ. ii. 135, Taf. cxix. 

 5), in having a much smaller body, and less distinct from the alate extrem- 

 ities. 



Mytilus, Linnaeus. 



Mytilcs Whitfieldiaxcs, n. sp. — Shell small, veutricose, transversely elon- 

 gate, very oblique, with terminal beaks. Hinge line two-thirds the length of 

 the shell, forming a rounded, very obtuse angle with the somewhat circular 

 posterior border ; ventral border slightly arcuate, more rapidly curved beneath 

 the beaks. Greatest width opposite the posterior extremity of the hinge-line. 

 Umbonal ridge elevated, crowded over towards the hinge line, and rendered 

 somewhat angular, more sharply so towards the beak. Surface of shell and 

 cast marked by numerous concentric lamellose lines. One of the best preserved 

 specimens shows distinctly a multitude of minute diverging striae running in 

 all parts of the surface at right angles with the lines of growth. 



Length from beak to posterior extremity -59 (100) ; greatest height '29 (50) ; 

 length from beak to extremity of hinge line "44 (75) ; convexity of right 

 valve -12 (20). 



Localities. — Holland, Ottawa county and Marshall. 



Caedixia, Agassiz. 



Cakdinia coMPLAJfATA, n. sp. — Shell of moderate size, ovoid, compressed, 

 with sub-central beaks. Ventral border gradually curved to the abruptly 

 turned extremities, from which the outline is nearly straight along the cardi- 

 nal slopes to the obtuse incurved beaks ; line joining extremities equidistant 

 from beaks and ventral margins. Right valve flattened, producing an angular 

 fold along the postero-dorsal declivity near the hinge line. Exterior sculp- 

 tured by about 20 broad regular furrows parallel with the ventral border. 

 Other characters unknown. 



Length 1*2 (100) ; height '04 (53) ; length of anterior cardinal slope to ex- 

 tremity of shell '64 (53) ; of posterior -87 (72) ; convexity of right valve 

 (perhaps mechanically compressed) -13 (11). 



Locality. — Union, in Branch county, in blue argillaceous shales of the Hu- 

 ron group. 



Cabdixia .^quimabgixalis, n. sp. — Shell of medium size, tumid, beaks cen- 

 tral, anterior and posterior hinge-slopes at right angles with each other, 

 straight, very nearly equal and symmetrical ; extremities rounded, situated 

 about midway between beaks and ventral margin, which is regularly arcuate 

 between the extremities ; posterior extremity a little more acute than the an- 

 terior. Shell tumid, regularly convex, slightly truncate along the antero-car- 

 dinal slope. Beak (of cast) marked only by obscure incremental lines and 

 nearly obsolete concentric furrows. Hin£;e structure unknown. 



Length of shell -91 (100) ; height -86 (94) ; thickness -50 (55.) 



Locality. — Marshall. 



Cardinia robusta, J. de C. Sowerby is a close representative of this species, 

 but is not so high, and is more produced and angulated posteriorly. 



Cardixia coxcexteica, n. sp. — Shell of medium size, ventricose, transverse- 

 ly elliptic, with subequal extremities and marked ventral enrolment. Beaks 

 appressed, incurved, rising little above the hinge, distant one-fourth the shell- 

 length from the anterior end ; umbo and middle of the shell flattened antero- 

 posteriorly ; antumbonal ridge inflected towards the hinge, forming above a 

 lunuliform area ; dorsal and ventral borders sub-parallel in the adult shell ; 

 posterior end obtusely, or at length truncately rounded ; anterior end para- 

 boloid. Hinge line straight and rather extended posteriorly. A broad shal- 

 low inconspicuous sinus extends from the posterior ventral margin towards 

 the beak. External surface marked, towards the beak, with remote, equidis- 

 tant, raised, concentric striae and intervening flat belts ; towards the margin 

 1862.] 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the striffi gradually become sharp ridges, and the intervening belts deep fur- 

 rows — these characters being especially strong at the anterior end ; whole 

 surface marked by faint incremental lines. Greatest convexity of shell con- 

 siderably below the middle. 



Length 1-30 (100); height -55(42); convexity of left valve -24(18; 

 whole number of furrows on exterior 14. 



Localities. — Hillsdale county at Jonesville, and S. E. ^ S. W. ^, Sec. 33, 

 Adams. 



Differs from C. complanata in its greater relative transverse dimension and 

 its vertical enrolment. It may yet prove to be a Grammysia. 



Edmoxdia, de Koninck. 



Edmondia binumbonata, n. sp. — Shell of moderate size, rotund -quadrate, 

 very tumid. Hinge line short, posterior to the beaks ; posterior margin form- 

 ing with it a very obtuse angle ; anterior slope straight, forming a rounded 

 right angle with the slightly curved ventral border which is nearly parallel 

 with the hinge line, and joins the posterior slope by a regular curve. Beaks 

 depressed and incurved ; greatest thickness through the middle of the shell ; 

 principal umbonal slope running to the posterior extremity of the ventral 

 border ; a subsidiary one running to the anterior extremity ; between these the 

 surface is subcylindrical ; anterior to them it descends abruptly to the ante- 

 rior margin, while behind them it sinks at first rather abruptly, and near the 

 posterior border presents a little flattening. Surface (of cast) marked by eight 

 or ten concentric furrows. Anterior lunule excavated. 



Distance measured along the principal umbonal slope -85 (100) ; length 

 from anterior to posterior extremity -85 (100) ; anterior slope -59 (69) ; con- 

 vexity of right valve -24 (28) ; angle between anterior cardinal slope and prin- 

 cipal umbonal line 70°. 



Localit)/. — Marshall. 



Closely related to E. scalaris, McCoy (Brit. Pal. Foss. 502, pi. 3 H, fig. 6), 

 from the carboniferous limestone of Lowick, but the anterior extremity is pro- 

 duced into a rounded angle instead of being truncated. 



Orthonota, (Conrad), McCoy. 



Oethoxota kectidoksalis, n. sp. — Shell of moderate size, tumid, elongate 

 transversely with subterminal beaks and gaping extremities. Hinge margin 

 straight, reaching nearly to the posterior extremity of the shell, somewhat 

 elevated ; ventral margin straight, and parallel with the dorsal ; posterior ex- 

 tremity truncately rounded, making with the dorsal margin an anterior angle 

 of 105° ; anterior end slightly gaping two-thirds the width of the shell, 

 rounded abruptly above, gradually below ; beak scarcely elevated above the 

 dorsal line, flattened, incurved, with a conspicuous lunule in front ; umbonal 

 swelling running to the lower posterior angle. Hinge apparently edentulous 

 and simple ; pallial and muscular impressions undiscernible ; a deep groove 

 runs from beneath the beak to the anterior extremity, which interrupts the 

 concentric lines shown on the interior of the shell. The cast shows five or 

 six very faint lines diverging from the beak along the superumbonal slope. 



Length 1-48 (100) ; height -44 (30) ; convexity of right valve -10 (7) ; 

 length of anterior end -25 (17). 



Loca/iti/. — Moscow, Hillsdale county. 



This shell agrees tolerably well with Orthonota, as modified by McCoy. The 

 gaping extremities and general outline perhaps indicate atfinities with Solen. 



Sanguinolites, McCoy. 



SAXoriNOLiTRS UMOxiFOKMis, u. sp. — Shell small, compressed, transversely 

 ellipsoidal, with subterminal beaks. Hinge line straight, a little shorter than 

 the shell at both extremities ; hinge consisting only of a long, sharp, lami- 

 nar lateral tooth behind the beak. Anal margin obliquely subtruncate, as 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



also the supero-buccal region ; ventral border very slightly curved. Beaks 

 subterminal, flat, not projecting beyond the dorsal line. Anterior muscular 

 impression circular, deep, behind which is a clavicular process extending from 

 beneath the beaks, at right angles with the dorsal line, half way across the 

 valve. Cast nearly smooth, but marked by a few concentric undulations. 

 Shell very thin, marked simply with fine incremental lines. 



Length -84(100) : height -39 (46) ; convexity of one valve -11 (13) ; pro- 

 jection of anterior extremity beyond the beak -12 (14). 



Localitij. — Sec. 29 Moscow, Hillsdale county. 



Sangdikolites Makshalleksis, n. sp. — Shell of medium size, transverse, 

 equivalve, ellipsoidal in outline, with subterminal beaks. Hinge line appa- 

 rently edentulous, straight, flattened and elevated posteriorly, terminating one 

 fourth the length of the shell from the posterior extremity, at which point is 

 the greatest height of the shell. Posterior extremity a semi-ellipse ; anterior 

 subtruncate above, regularly rounded below ; a sinus in the ventral border 

 one-third the shell-length from the anterior end, from which a diminishing 

 furrow extends to the flattish, straight, incurved beak. Greatest thickness 

 of shell on the middle line a little nearest to the anterior end. Surface 

 marked by about three remote, deep, concentric grooves, and numerous fine 

 lines of growth. 



Length 1.2 (100) ; greatest height -63 (52) ; thickness -36 (30) ; projection 

 of anterior end beyond the beak "09 (7). 



Locality, — Marshall. 



This species seems to be destitute of the elongated posterior escutcheon 

 characteristic of McCoy's Sanguuiolites, but agrees perfectly with Professor 

 King's modified ideas of Al!oris7na, (Perm. Foss. pp. 162 and 196). Some hes- 

 itancy is shown, however, among palaeontologists about the adoi:)tion of the 

 latter name, which McCoy regards as a synonym of SanguinoUtes. 



Sanguinolites borealis, n. sp. — Shell rather small, ventricose, transversely 

 elliptic ; beak somewhat projecting and incurved, less than one fifth the shell- 

 length from the anterior extremity, with a lunuliform excavation in front of 

 it ; dorsal margin straight ; ventral margin slightly arcuate ; posterior ex- 

 tremity regularly rounded ; anterior sharply bent in front of the lunule, from 

 which it slopes with a truncate backward curve to the ventral border : um- 

 bonal slope extending diagonally to the infero-posterior margin, somewhat 

 angulated behind the beak, and inflected toward the cardinal region. Surface 

 of shell of northern specimens unknown ; cast showing several distinct con- 

 centric grooves. Shell of southern specimens thin, marked both with con- 

 centric and minute radiating striae. Greatest height of shell along the per- 

 pendicular from the beak ; greatest convexity in the middle of the same line. 



Length 1-10 (100) ; bread'th -44 (40) ; thickness of right valve -15 (44). 



Locality. — Grindstone quarries, Pt. aux Barques above the gritstones, and 

 Moscow, Hillsdale county. 



Distinguished from S. unioniformis and S. Marshallensis by its terminal beaks, 

 greater relative gibbosity, greater length and its posterior attenuation. 



Leptodomus, McCoy. 



Leptodomus clavatcs, n. sp. — Shell small, tumid, transversely quadrangu- 

 lar, obliquely carinate, concentrically sulcate, with subterminal beaks. 

 Length nearlj"^ three times the breadth ; ends abruptly rounded, and slightly 

 deflected upwards, creating a discernible concavity along the extended hinge 

 line. Beak (of left valve) broad, flattened, incurved, with anterior and pos- 

 terior lunettes. Anterior extremity truncate along the anterior umbonal 

 slope ; posterior extremity squarely truncated ; postumbonal slope diagonally 

 precipitous to the cardinal expansion, which begins behind the beak and 

 widens to the posterior extremity. 



Length -62 (100) ; height -24 r39) ; convexity of left valve -10 (16). 



1862.] 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Locality. — Union, Branch county, in blue argillaceous shales of the Huron 

 group. 



This fossil may be a Grammysia, hut it is destitute of the oblique furrows 

 considered characteristic of that genus. 



It bears a remote resemblance to Sanguinolites {Leptodomus) costellatus, 

 McCoy. 



Caediomorpha, de Koninck. 



CAEDiOMORrnA MODiOLARis, n. sp. — Shell rather small, vertically ovate, in- 

 flated, equivalve, with very short hinge line, and very symmetrical extremi- 

 ties. Hinge line blending by a regular curvature with the posterior margin ; 

 both margins approximately parallel, gradually curved, and connected by the 

 more rapidly curved respiratory border. Beaks scarcely projecting beyond 

 the hinge, obtusely pointed and straight ; valve inflated and convex to the 

 pallial border, slightly flattened on the anterior umbonal slope. Surface 

 smooth, with a few coarse concentric folds marking the later growth. 



Length from the extremity of the beak over the umbonal slope 1'05 (100) ; 

 shortest distance from this line to extremity of anterior margin -S-l (32) ; to 

 posterior margin -40 (38). 



Localities. — Section 27, Columbia, Jackson county ; Moscow, Hillsdale 

 county, and Marshall and Battle Creek, Calhoun county. 



The hinge characters of this species not being known, its generic identity 

 may be questioned. The beak and hinge line do not present the characters 

 of the typical Cardiomorpha, but the shell presents strong analogies with C. 

 livida, de Kon., (Anim. Foss. 106, pi. iii., 4), from which it differs only in 

 being more equilateral and in having its beaks more separated. 



Cardiohorpha Julia, n. sp. — Shell small, luciniform ; beaks moderately 

 produced, small, appressed turned forward, somewhat anterior to the middle of 

 the shell ; posterior hinge slope nearly straight, making a very obtuse angle 

 with the posterior margin, which is also nearly straight, and connects by an 

 abrupt curve with the ventral border. Anterior hinge slope making an angle 

 of about 118° with the posterior, uniting by an abrupt curve with the regu- 

 larly convex ventral border. The hinge has not been fully examined, but a 

 couple of fine sharp laminae are seen proceeding from beneath the beak, along 

 the posterior hinge plate. External surface marked by sharply cut concentric 

 striae, at regular intervals, which increase gradually in width with the growth 

 of the shell. 



Length from anterior to posterior angulation -85 (100) ; height from beak 

 to ventral margin -64 (75; ; radius of curvature of ventral side -48 (56) ; 

 bringing tlie centre of curvature on the postumbonal slope '17 from the beak ; 

 convexity of right valve -12 (14) ; number of concentric striae on the mea- 

 sured specimens about 45. 



Localities. — Battle Creek, Marshall, Moscow. This seems to be a close rep- 

 resentative of C. Puzosiana, de Kon. (Anim. Foss. 104, pi. ii., 8), and only 

 diflfers in more angulated extremities and more regular striation ; though an 

 occasional specimen has more rounded extremities. This species recalls also 

 the forms figured by Prof. Hall, under the names Lucina ? retitsa and Ungu- 

 Una [Lmc»)o?] sidiorhicularis, (Geol. Rep. 4th Dist., N. Y., pp. 243, 245), from 

 the Portage group. While the Michigan fossil is more transverse than the spe- 

 cimens figured by Prof. Hall, it may yet prove identical. 



Cardiomorpha capdloides, n. sp. — Shell very small, with a very prominent 

 umbo ; body and margin of each valve trumpet shaped, giving it the appear- 

 ance of a capuloid shell. Beak slightly anterior, turned forward, and in the 

 cast obtuse, with a terminal callosity, as if by the absorption of the shell- 

 substance separating the extremity of an enrolled beak from the body of the 

 mollusc. Body of sliell more extended posteriorly ; antumbonal slope rather 

 rapid ; margin nearly circular or a little ovate. Hinge and external surface 

 lanknown ; cast smooth, with a few concentric wrinkles of growth. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 417 



Length from extremity of beak over umbo to ventral margin -SS ; antero- 

 posterior dimension -29 ; elevation of nmbo above plane of valve •20. 



Locality. — Grindstone quarries, Pt. anx Barques, with Rhynchonella cameri- 

 fera, &c. 



None of my specimens of this singular shell are perfect, even as casts ; and 

 I should be induced to refer them to Platyceras, Conrad, were it not that five 

 would thus be sinistral and six dextral, while at the same time the very cam- 

 panulate aperture seems to suggest rather Cardiomorpha or Isocardia. 



Cardiopsis, Meek and Worthen. 



Cakdiopsis crenistkiata, n. sp. — Shell of medium size, gibbous ; hinge line 

 straight, rather short, joining the posterior margin by a regular curve which 

 proceeds to the ventral side where a more abrupt curvature separates the pos- 

 terior from the anterior border. Beak prominent, incurved, projecting a little 

 above the hinge line. Surface marked by a set of irregular concentric wrin- 

 kles, and a set of fine, regular raised concentric striae, the whole decussated 

 by conspicuous, radiating, unequal, wrinkled ribs, which are fine and some- 

 what regular on the beak, becoming irregularly crenulated in the middle of 

 the valve, and irregularly flexuous near the pallial border. 



Greatest length from the beak to the ventral margin over the umbonal slope 

 •96 (100) ; angle between this and the hinge margin 55° ; convexity of left 

 valve •SS (34). 



Locality. — Section 27, Columbia, Jackson county. 



This fossil differs from Cardiomorpha radiata, de Kon., (An. Foss. 109, pi. 

 ii., 6), in being less inflated all around the pallial region, and in being more 

 produced posteriorly, as well as in the characters of the striation. It proba- 

 bly agrees in generic characters. Its closest analogue is Cardiopsis radiata, 

 Meek and Worthen, (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phil., Oct., 1860, and June, 

 1861), = Megambonia Lyoni, Hall, (13th Rep. Reg. N. Y., p. 110), from which 

 it seems to differ only in its striation. 



Cardiopsis jejuna, n. sp. — Shell small, somewhat orbicular, nearly equila- 

 teral, with a prominent sharp beak slightly turned forward. Hinge line ob- 

 tusely angulated beneath the beak, extending on each side to a subalate ex- 

 pansion of the (right) valve, between which points the curvature of the pal- 

 lial margin decribes about three- fifths of a circle. Beak projecting above the 

 hinge ; umbo excavated on the anterior side ; umbonal ridge tumid on the 

 posterior side. Characters of hinge and external surface unknown ; surface 

 of cast with a few concentric furrows. 



Length •SS (100) ; height -41 (108) ; distance from posterior extremity to 

 line drawn over umbonal slope '23 (61) ; from anterior extremity to same line 

 •20 (53) ; convexity of right valve -12 (32). 



Locality. — Railroad cut, three miles north of Napoleon, Jackson county. 



Cardiopsis megamboxata, n. sp. — Shell very small, ovatp, with an elevated, 

 little incurved, nearly central beak, gibbous umbo and regularly rounded 

 margins, of which the ventral is most abruptly so. Slopes from the umbo 

 ■jonvex in all directions to the very margin. Anterior and posterior cardinal 

 margins similar and equal. Surface of casts striately ribbed, most distinctly 

 so toward the ventral border, and in some cases marked by rather strong con- 

 centric wrinkles toward the pallial margin. 



Height from beak to ventral margin -25 (100) ; length from anterior to pos- 

 terior margin -23 (92) ; convexity of left (?) valve '11 (44). 



Locality. — Grindstone quarries, Pt. aux Barques, with Rhynchonella cameri- 

 fera, &c. 



NtTCULA, Lamarck. 



NcccLA HuBBARDi, n. sp. — Shell rather large, ovate-triangular, ventricose ; 

 beaks three-fifths the shell-length behind the anterior (longer) extremity, 

 1862.] 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



prominent, acute, incurved and turned backward ; cardinal lines nearly 

 straight, beyond the dental series curving rapidly to the extremities, of which 

 the anterior is broadly rounded ; ventral side with a slight general convexity, 

 varied by a broad shallow sinuation in front of the middle, which extends 

 one-third the distance up to the beaks. Pallial line entire ; posterior adductor 

 forming a round deep scar. Cardinal angle between the beaks varying from 

 115° to 125° ; teeth numerous, in a series not perceptibly interrupted between 

 the beaks, those on the anterior slope posteriorly angulated, those on the pos- 

 terior slope rather larger ; the remoter often transverse to the hinge plate : 

 those nearer the beak angulated forwards ; between the beaks the hinge plate 

 is somewhat widened, and the teeth are slender, long and crowded in a scarcely 

 interrupted series. Shell massive, thickened around the smooth ventral mar- 

 gin ; external surface marked by numerous unequal lines of growth ; cast? 

 nearly smooth. 



Length of an average specimen 1*45 (100) ; height "SO (55) ; convexity of 

 one valve •2(3 (18) ; length of posterior end -59 (41) ; anterior end -9(5 (66) : 

 height of beaks above line connecting extremities "46 (32) ; number of teeth 

 in posterior series from 12 to 16 ; in anterior from 30 to 40. 



Localities. — Marshall, Battle Creek, Moscow, and at nearly every other ex- 

 posure of the Marshall Sandstone in the southern part of the State. The 

 most abundant fossil in the group, generally occurring in beds ten or twelve 

 inches in thickness. 



This species has about the proportions of Cucullella ienuiarata, Sandb. 

 (Verstein, 276, Taf. xxix. 4), but specimens of the latter from Kirschweiler. 

 in the cabinet of Dr. Rominger, are more symmetrically furrowed, and pos- 

 sess fewer teeth. 



This is, perhaps, the species described by Dr. Stevens as Leda nuculaformis^ 

 (Sill. Jour. [2], XXV. 262), but it is not Leda, and the number of teeth is 

 much too great for his description. 



Named in honor of Bela Hubbard, Esq., of Detroit, who published in lS4(i 

 the first notice on record of the interesting sandstones under consideration, 

 and designated the generic relations of several of the more abundant fossils. 



Var. prolata. A form which I am inclined to regard as only a variety of the 

 preceding, is very ventricose, and more elongated anteriorly, with a greater 

 number of teeth. 



Length 1-46 (100); height -69 (47); convexity of one valve -28 (19); length 

 of posterior end '38 (26); of anterior end 1*06 (72). 



Localities. — Moscow and Battle Creek. 



NucuLA lowENSis. White and Whitfield (Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., Feb. 

 1862, p. 298). — Shell small, triangularly ovate, ventricose, with prominent 

 incurved, subterminal beaks. Cardinal plate forming an angle of 95°, but the 

 dorsal outline of the shell, from the prominence of the beaks, forms an angle 

 of 80°. Anterior and posterior slopes truncated ; anterior extremity rounded, 

 ventral border semi-elliptic. Long end with about 11 teeth ; short end with 

 6 very inconspicuous ones. Pallial impression entire, connecting the deep 

 adductor scars ; anterior scar nearly terminal, lenticular, with a small oval 

 scar above ; posterior scar oval, scarcely above the extremity. Shell thickened 

 near the margin. 



Length -47 (100); height -40 (85) ; convexity -26 (55) ; distance from beak 

 to line joining extremities '27 (57). 



Localities. — Battle Creek and Sec. 7, Wyoming, Kent county. 



These specimens possess a somewhat greater number of teeth than the Iowa 

 ones, according to the author's description. In general form they recall 

 Cucullaa antiqua, Sow., from the old red sandstone of Felindre (Murch. Sil. 

 Syst., pi. iii. fig. 120). 



NccuLA SECTORALis, u. sp. — Shell rather small, ventricose, Sti^toriform, with 

 nearly central beaks. Anterior cardinal slope straight ; posterior, nearly so. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HILADELPIIIA. 419 



raaT<ing with the former an angle of 88'' to 91° ; ventral border sub-circular. 

 Beaks prominent, acute, direct, incurved. Anterior hinge plate with about 

 17 teeth ; posterior with about 13, much smaller. Adductor scars subterminal, 

 profound, roundly oval. Surface of casts perfectly smooth. 



Length -SG (100); height -74 (86): thickness -44 (51); distance form beak 

 to line joining extremities 40 (46) ; length of anterior end -51 (59); of pos- 

 terior end -35 (41). 



Locality. —Ba.ttle Creek and Grindstone Quarries, Pt. anx Barques. 



NuccLA Stella, n. sp. — Shell very small, elliptic-ovate, with subcentral 

 beaks. Anterior cardinal slope arched, posterior nearly straight ; extremities 

 rather sharply rounded ; ventral side semi-elliptic. Anterior hinge plate with 

 17 minute, acute teeth ; posterior with 5, angulated in both cases towards the 

 beak. Beaks a little attenuated near the extremity, curved inwards and 

 backwards. Pallial line entire, connecting the muscular scars, which are 

 oval, and situated considerably above the middle line of the shell. Shell 

 thin, with delicate concentric striae. 



Length -33 (100) ; height -24 (73) ; thickness -14 (42) ; length of anterior 

 end '20 (61); of posterior end "13 (39); distance from beak to line adjoining 

 extremities -14 (42). 



Localities. — At every outcrop of the formation in the southern part of the 

 State. Also at the Grindstone Quarries, Pt. aux Barques. 



This beautiful little shell has affinities with 'N. ventricosa, Hall, (Iowa Eep. 

 716, pi. 29, fig. 4), from the coal measures of Iowa. It is easily mistaken for 

 the young of N. Huhhardi, but is proved distinct by its more rounded sides 

 and fewer teeth, as well as by its occurrence in a region of the State where the 

 larger species is as yet unknown. 



Leda, Schumacher. 



Leda bellistriata, Stevens (Sill. .lour. [2], vol. xxv., p. 261). — Shell small, 

 twice as long as high, somewhat ventricose, with sub-central beaks, which 

 are rather prominent, incurved and pointed forward. Anterior cardinal slope 

 slightly convex, posterior concave, with a well defined, long, deep and nar- 

 row escutcheon ; anterior extremity broadly rounded ; posterior attenuate, 

 with a blunt termination. Angle of the cardinal line between the beaks 130°. 

 Surface marked by regular sharply-impressed concentric striae, of which 45 

 may be counted between the ventral margin and a point one-tentli of an inch 

 below the beak, where they become undistinguishable. Striae not visibly ex- 

 tending across the escutcheon. 



Length -61 (100) ; height -34 (56) ; thickness -18 (29) ; length of posterior 

 end '38 (62); of anterior end '23 (38); height of beaks above line connecting 

 extremities '17 (28). 



Locality. — Moscow, Hillsdale county. 



I see no means of separating our species from the one described by Stevens 

 from the coal measures of Ohio. Prof. Hall's specimens from Iowa, however, 

 which he has referred to the same species, difl"er from ours in a broad escut- 

 cheon, and the continuation of the striae across it, characters which are stated 

 not to exist in the original specimen. 



A rostral extremity of a Leda, from Battle Creek, marked and proportioned 

 as above, is '64 long and "59 high, and by the principles of proportion must 

 have belonged to an individual nearly \^ inches long. 



Cahdhtm, Bi-uguiere. 



Cardium Napoleonense, n. sp. — Shell small, truncately triangnlar, oblique. 

 Beaks elevated above the hinge, prominent, sharp, direct ; hinge-line anterior 

 to beak, short and straight, forming a rounded ant>^rior angle with the ventral 

 border, which sweeps by a regular course to the posterior border, which is 

 elongate, truncate at right angles with the hinge-line, and furnished with a 

 1862.] 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



large arclied opening beneath the umbo. This truncation makes but a small 

 angle with the midumbonal slope, the arch beneath which is partly closed by 

 the curtain-like deflection of the posterior part of the shell. External surface 

 marked by fine radiating ribs, and a few concentric rugae in front of the beak 

 and along the anterior terminal expansion. 



Height of shell from beak along midumbonal slope to remotest point of 

 ventral border -59 (100); distance from anterior cardinal angle across the shell 

 at right angles with posterior truncation '42 (71); convexity of right valve 

 •15 (25). 



Localities. — Marshall, Battle Creek, and R. R. Cut, 3 miles North of Najw- 

 leon, Jackson county. 



CoNOCAEDiuM, Bronu. 



CoNOCARDiOM ? BoviPEDALE, n. sp. — Shell Small, very ventricose, truncated 

 along the umbonal slope, or a little posterior thereto, by a plane nearly verti- 

 cal to the plane of the valves, but a little inclined posteriorly, thus producing 

 a slightly acute plane angle with the external surface. Beak prominent, 

 somewhat enrolled and turned forward ; hinge-line anterior, short, convex, 

 joining, by a rounded, obtuse angle, the gently rounded anterior angle, which 

 curves more rapidly in approaching the ventral margin and the truncation. 

 Posterior, truncated side nearly flat, but a little concave, with an arched, 

 mactra-shaped opening under the umbo. Convex surface of shell, with 26 

 radiating ribs, slightly flattened along their summits, and very fine, sharp, 

 undulating, concentric stria, most distinct between the anterior angle and 

 the umbo ; the truncated surface with obsolete arched striae. Right valve 

 unknown. 



Length along truncating line '30 (100); distance from anterior extremity to 

 truncating plane, at right angles with latter "20 (67); convexity of left valve 

 •12 (40). 



Locality. — Marshall. 



This species belongs to the group of C. Napoleonense, but may be easily dis- 

 tinguished by its coarser ribs, greater ventricosity, less flattened marginal 

 regions and nearly mesial truncation. 



POSIDONOMTA, BrOWD. 



PosiDONOMYA RoMiNGEKi, n. sp. — Shell of medium size ; general outline about 

 two-thirds of an ellipse, the longer axis of which is nearly at right angles 

 with the anterior cardinal slope of the shell, and forms an angle of 75° with 

 the straight hinge-line, and one of 33° with the midumbonal slope ; greatest 

 width of shell a little nearer the (regularly curved) ventral border ; region 

 behind the beak a little excavated, making the posterior cardinal region 

 appear slightly flattened and produced ; beaks elevated above the hinge-line, 

 approximated and slightly turned forward. Surface (of cast) distinctly 

 marked by continuous equidistant and direct concentric striae. Hinge un- 

 known. 



Greatest length of shell (over midumbonal slope) ^97 (100); longer axis of 

 the elliptic outline ^90 (92); greatest width of shell (at right angles with last 

 measure -70 (72); thickness of right valve '20 (21); number of striae in one- 

 tenth of an inch, in the middle of the shell 3^. 



Locality. — Marshall. 



Closely imitates in outline P. vetusta, Sow. sp. (Phill. Geol. Yorks. 211, pi. 

 vi. 3), but the beak is less projecting, and the concentric furrows are more 

 numerous and smaller. 



PosiDONOMYA Whiteana, u. sp. — Shell of moderate size, oblique, with an 

 extended, straight, hinge-line, a subalate expansion before, and a rather flat- 

 tened and extended posterior margin. Beaks little elevated above the hinge, 

 incurved, and slightly turned forward. Umbonal ridge much swollen, situa- 

 ted anterior to the middle of the shell, and making an angle of 66" with th« 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



straight hinge-line. Surface of cast nearly smooth ; pallial line distinct, en- 

 tin^. Surface of shell showing only five irregular lines of growth, without 

 undulations. 



Length over umbonal slope '64 (100) ; diameter at right angles with this 

 dimension -50 (77): convexity of left valve '15 (23). 



Locality. — Marshall. 



Named in honor of C. A. White, M. D., of Burlington, Iowa. 



PosiDo>"OMTA MESAMBONATA, n. sp. — Shell &mall. tumid equimarginal. 

 Beaks prominent, slightly incurved ; umbonal slope passing scarcely anterior 

 to the middle of the valve, and nearly at right angles with the sliort, straight 

 hinge-line ; posterior margin slightly curved, scarcely alate, obtusely angula- 

 ted at its junction with the dorsal side ; anterior margin similar to posterior, 

 and connected with it by the semi-circular ventral margin. Entire surface 

 convex, without undulations, and marked only by fine stri?e of growth. 



Length from beak to opposite ventral margin over umbo "50 (100) ; width 

 at risrht angles with this line across the middle (and widest part) of the valve 

 •41 0S2); convexity of right valve -12 (24^. 



Localities. — Marshall and Moscow. 



Almost an exact copy in outline of P. vetasta, Sow. fde Kon. Anim. Foss.. 

 1 1. vi. fig. 1. a and b, not c.) It wants, however, the undulations of that 

 species, and is smaller. 



Sasguixolakia, McCoy. 



SAXorixoLAEiA siMiLis, u. sp. — Shell rather large, transversely elliptic, rather 

 appressed. Beaks a little anterior to the middle of the shell, flat, obtuse, and 

 little elevated. Hinge-line about one-third the length of the shell, slightly 

 angulated under the beaks ; buccal and anal slopes somewhat straight ; ante- 

 rior and posterior margins abruptly rounded ; ventral margin regularly curved, 

 except a slight bend in the middle. Longest dimension equidistant between 

 beaks and venter. Pallial impression entire ? ; anterior muscular scar 

 roundish-oval ; posterior obliquely pyriform. A pair of strong internal 

 ridges diverge from beneath tlie beaks (as in Tellina), the anterior passing 

 along the posterior side of the buccal scar, and the posterior along the front 

 margin of the posterior scar, terminating opposite the lower borders of the 

 respective scars. A sharp but shallow groove runs along the anterior of the 

 posterior ridge. Hinge not fully known ; a strong triangular cardinal tooth 

 passes a little obliquely forward across the hinge-plate, beliind which is a 

 deep pit, while a shallow one bounds the tooth anteriorly : an elongated tri- 

 ansular lateral tooth extends in front of the beak, and apparently another 

 belund the beak. Shell thick ; external surface marked by irregular, fine 

 incremental striae, and a few broad shallow farrows. 



Length 2-0 (100); height I'll (55); convexity of one valve •23 (11); length 

 ot posterior lateral tooth -42 (21) ; from beak to anterior extremity -95 (47) ; 

 to posterior extremity 1*25 (62). 



Locality. — Marshall, where it is rather abundant. 



Sangcikolakia septentrioxalis, n. sp. — Shell of moderate size, equivalve. 

 quadrately elliptic, subtumid, with sub-central beaks. Hinge line occupying 

 three-fourths the length of the shell, nearly straight. Posterior extremity 

 roundly truncate by a plane inclining towards the beaks : anterior end simi- 

 larly truncated by a plane parallel with the last ; ventral border slightly ar- 

 cuated, bounded behind by a rounded acute angle, and before by a rounded 

 obtuse angle. Hinge (as shown by casts) consisting of a prominent triangu- 

 lar cardinal tooth, and a lateral one eacli side — tlie posterior very slender. 

 Pallial line entire (?) ; anterior muscular scar small, nearly circular. Clavi- 

 cular ridges indistinct. Surface of casts showing a few obscure incremental 

 furrows. 



Length 1-15 (100); height -73 (63) : convexity of left valve -15 (13). 



1862.] ^ 29 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Locality. — Gaines, Kent cotmty, from large angular fragments of a purplish - 

 red, friable sandstone, strewn along the region of outcrop of the Marshall 

 sandstone throughout the western part of the State. 



SanctUinolaria sectoralis, n. sp. — Shell rather large, subtumid, triangular, 

 with beaks but little in advance of the middle. Anterior and posterior car- 

 dinal slopes but slightly curved, the latter the longest ; anterior end a broad 

 curve ; posterior more produced and more abruptly curved between the ex- 

 tremities. Beak prominent, somewhat depressed, incurved. Greatest thick- 

 ness of shell in the middle. Muscular pits situated above the middle, oval, 

 profound, connected by the entire pallial impression. 



Length 1-18 (100) : 'height -92 (78) ; thickness -54 (45) ; length of anterior 

 end •43 (36) ; of posterior end '75(63). Length, height and thickness of 

 largest specimen seen are 1-75 (100), 1-30 (74) and -70 (40) ; length of ante- 

 rior end '80 (45) ; of posterior end -94 (53). 



Locality. — M'arshall. 



SoLEx, Linnseus. 



SoLEN scALPRiFORMis, u. sp. — Shell of moderate size, having the hinge line 

 straight, and the ventral regularly curved, and so situated that its chord forms 

 posteriorly, an angle of about 5° with the dorsal margin ; extremities abruptly 

 rounded — the anterior one regularly, the posterior truncately. Valves with 

 a slight constriction beneath the subterminal beaks, which corresponds to a 

 strong ridge within, fading away at about half the distance from the dorsal to 

 the ventral margin. Valves but moderately inflated, flatter behind, and a 

 little drawn together anteriorly. Exterior surface marked by incremental lines 

 nearly concentric with the pallial border. 



Length of shell 2-05 (100) ; projection of anterior extremity beyond the 

 beaks •!! (5) ; greatest width of shell (one-third its length from forward end) 

 •56 (27) ; width at? two-thirds the shell-length from forward end ^48 (23), 

 whence it narrows rapidly. 



Localities. — Marshall and Moscow, abundantly. Also, near Napoleon. 



A well marked variation ih form has been observed in many specimens, 

 having a straight ventral border and more uniform width. 



SoLEN QUADEANGHLARis, u. sp.— Shell of medium size, quadrangular; hinge 

 margin straight, somewhat shorter than the ventral margin, which is also 

 straight through the greater part of its length, but is abruptly rounded up- 

 wards anteriorly, and a little more gradually rounded posteriorly. Beaks 

 terminal ; anterior extremity of shell transversely truncate, posterior obliquely 

 ■AO. Valves rather tumid anteriorly, becoming less so posteriorly ; not at all 

 contracted toward the gaping extremities. A constriction appears close to the 

 anterior extremity, which corresponds to a ridge within, narrow and sharp 

 near the beak, but becoming broad and depressed towards the opposite mar- 

 gin. Surface marked by distinct lines of growth running parallel with the 

 ventral and posterior margins. 



Greatest length 2-0 (100) ; width •66 (33) ; posterior truncation forming 

 with hinge-line an angle of about 64°. 



Locality. — Marshall. 



SoLEN PRiscus, n. sp. — Shell of medium size, slightly arcuate by an inflec- 

 tion of the two extremities toward the ventral side ; dorsal and ventral mar- 

 gins nearly parallel ; valves but little inflated, giving an oval-lanceolate trans- 

 verse section ; anterior extremity widely gaping, projecting a little beyond 

 the beak, regularly rounded to the ventral side below, and above truncated 

 obliquely backwards to the vicinity of the hinge ; posterior extremity obliquely 

 truncate, with the lower angle abruptly rounded. The cast shows the im- 

 pression of a broad ridge passing from the hinge toward the ventral margin, 

 and is further marked by distinct incremental lines parallel with the pallial 

 border except on the anterior truncation, by which thev are intercepted. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 423 



Length about 2-75 (100) ; width -.78 (28) ; thickness -25 (9) ; projection ot 

 anterior extremity beyond heaks '28 (11) ; posterior angle formed with hinge 

 line by anterior truncation 140° ; anterior angle formed by posterior trunca- 

 tion 128°. 



Locality. — Union, Branch couuty, in blue argillaceous shales of the Huron 

 group — the "Kidney Iron formation" of Houghton. 



But few specimens of this interesting species have been seen, and the best 

 of these is defective at the posterior extremity ; and I have determined the 

 total length only from a restoration founded on the incremental lines. 



The three foregoing species of Solen nearly double the number previously 

 known from the Palsozoic rocks. Messrs. Sandberger have described S. cos- 

 tatus from the Aviculaschiefer of the Spiriferensandstein group in Nassau, 

 which is supposed by them to occupy the horizon of the Marcellus Shale and 

 Hamilton group. S. pelacjicus, Goldf., and S. Lustheidi, d'Arch. and Vern., 

 come also from the Devonian, but they are both doubtful species. The first is 

 referred by d'Orbigny to Cijpricardia ; the latter, judging from specimens in 

 Dr. Rominger's collection from the Eifel, has the valves scarcely gaping ante- 

 riorly, and presents much the appearance of a Sohmya, (see especially So- 

 lemyaprimceva, Phil. McCoy, Brit. Pal. Foss. pi. 3F., fig. 3). Lastly, de Kon- 

 inck has noticed a very imperfect solitary specimen, S. slliquoides, from the 

 subcarboniferous limestone of Vise, in Belgium. 



Pdgiunculus, Barrande. 



PuGitTxcuLos (?) ACULEATns, Hall, (13th Rep. N. Y. Reg., p. 107). — Shell 

 small, elongate, tapering, with an obtusely triangular section. Slant height 

 slightly curved on ail the sides and angles ; sides also more convex in the 

 transverse direction. The two equal sides making with each other an angle 

 of 102'', and with the broader side angles of 39°. Specimen a cast without 

 any external markings. 



Length -43 (100) ; breadth of sides at aperture -19 (44), -12 (2S), -12 (28). 



Locality, — S. E. h S. W, \ Sec. 23., Adams, Hillsdale county. 



This form lacks the evidence of striation attributed to Pagiunculug, Bar- 

 rande {Theca of English authors) and presents still less agreement with any 

 other known genus. The original specimens were described from Rockford, 

 Indiana. 



Pleukotomakia, Defrance. 



PsEUKOTOMARiA VADOSA, Hall, 10th Rep. N. Y. Reg., p. 108). — Shell glo- 

 bosely conical, with a width equal to its height ; whorls about three, rounded 

 on the exterior, somewhat flattened where they come in contact, marked along 

 the middle by a moderately raised carina, on each side of which is a feeble but 

 'listinct revolving line, and beyond this another still feebler, and sometimes a 

 third ; body whorl occupying about three-fourths of the altitude of the shell, 

 regularly curved on the base, and limited by a neatly rounded umbilicus 

 open to the apex of the shell. Aperture subcircular, but slightly modified by 

 the body whorl ; apex quite obtuse ; angle of sides 65° ; sutural angle about 

 90* on the last whorl. Cast shows the revolving lines on the last whorl, but 

 not on the preceding ones. 



Height of shell -44 (100) ; widuh -48 (109) ; height of body whorl -36 (82) ; 

 diameter of umbilicus (in a cast) '08. 



Locality. — In a loose fragment from the western part of the State, consisting 

 of an agglomerated, silicious, sintery and somewhat ferruginous mass of fos- 

 sils, physically resembling some states of the Marshall sandstone. Described 

 here in consequence of its supposed identity with a fossil from beds which 

 appear to be the equivalent of the Marshall sandstone, at Rockford, Ind. 



Pledkotomaria Whitei, n. sp. — Shell with a trochoid spire, straight colu- 

 mellar lip, and prominent carinate whorls. Number of whorls three and a 

 half, rapidly enlarging, raised in the middle of the dorsum in a prominent 

 1862.] 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



carina ; the sides of which rise vertically from the whorl and form a feebly 

 bilinear crest — a character best seen in specimens with the shell partly worn 

 away : from the base of the carina the surfaces slope with but little curvature, 

 at an angle of IIS'^ to 120° with each other, and form a well marked sutural 

 angle of about the same value with the contiguous whorl. Apex rather ob- 

 tuse ; angle of sides 67°. Aperture roundly quadrangular, produced on the 

 columellar side. Umbilicus remote. 



Height of shell -64(100): width of last whorl -59(92); height of last 

 whorl 53 (83) ; width of aperture at right angles with columella '29 (45) ; 

 greatest width— at an angle of 45° with the columella — '42 (66). 



Locality. — With P. vadosa. 



Somewhat resembles P. snhconica from the Trenton limestone, but the 

 whorls are not so closely crowded — being thus more rounded, and forming a 

 much deeper suture. 



Named in honor of Mr. A. D. White, an efficient assistant in the geological 

 survey of the State during 1S59 and 1860. 



Pleueotomakia ncMiLis, n. sp. — Shell depressed, conical. Band prominent, 

 revolving close to the linear suture in the upper whorls, central on the body 

 whorl ; surface of shell above and below the band but slightly convex on the 

 body whorl, flat on the spire, and making a peripheral angle of 61°. Incli- 

 nation of sides 109°. Umbilicus small, and apparently perforate. 



Approximate measurements of an imperfect specimen : height "52 (100) : 

 with -67 (129) ; height of last whorl -46 (S8) ; width of umbilicus -09. 



Local it//. — With P. vadosa. 



Has the general form of P. crenato-strlata, Sandb., (Verstein. Taf. xxii. 2), 

 but the band is narrower and more prominent. It closely resembles P. heli- 

 rinoides, McCoy, (Synop. Carb. Foss. Irel., pi. 7, f. 6), but is less depressed 

 and formed of fewer whorls. 



PLErEOTOMABiA Stella, d. sp. — Shell minute, trochiform, composed of four 

 and a half whorls closely appressed, and forming an apical angle of about 90". 

 Suture linear, inconspicuous — the flat sides of the whorls all lying in the same 

 plane. Body whorl regularly rounded, marked by a raised bilinear band sit- 

 uated a little above the peripheral line, and on the whorls of the spire nearly 

 concealed. The body whorl is ornamented by a line of minute tubercles run- 

 ning close to the suture, and occupying a feeble revolving ridge. No indica- 

 tions can be seen of transverse stri;e connected with the tubercles. Aperture 

 subcircular, with the columellar lip reflected over the umbilicus. Some sharp 

 in-egular incremental lines rise from the umbilical depression, and extend 

 across the body of the shell. 



Height -16 (100) ; width -20 (125); height of body whorl -14 (88); height 

 of aperture .09 (56) ; width of band at aperture "02 (12) ; number of tuber- 

 cles in one-tenth of an inch, 12. 



Locality.—^. W. i N. W. \, Sec. 4, JeflFersou, Hillsdale county. 



Pleueotomakia exigpa, n. sp. — Shell very small, depressed-turbinate, con- 

 sisting of three and a half rapidly enlarging convex whorls but slightly ap- 

 pressed and forming a deep suture, with an apical angle of about ^7''. Base 

 of shell convex, descending into a broad, deep umbilicus, from which rises a 

 set of sharp transverse strije crossing the whorl at right angles, but slightly 

 bent backwards on reaching the band, which is broad and situated a littb^ 

 above the peripheral zone, and marked by incremental lines ; above the band 

 similar strise describe an anteaily convex curve to the suture. Aperture cir- 

 cular. 



Height of shell -17 (100) ; diameter -18 (106) ; height of last whorl -14 (82) : 

 width of band -02 (12) ; number of transverse stris in one-tenth of an inch 

 counted near the aperture above the band is 24. 



Localitv.—^. W. \, N. W. ^, Sec. 4, Jeflferson, Hillsdale countv. 



[Sept 



1 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PIIILADELPniA. 425 



Pleurotomakia HtJRO!iE\sis, n. sp. — Shell rather large, depressed-tarbinate, 

 consisting of about four very rapidly enlarging whorls. Body whorl flattened 

 from above, moderately convex above ; the base a twisted plane bounded on 

 one side by the slope into a large open umbilicus, on the other, by the sharp 

 prominent carina which marks the periphery of the whorl. Surface of the 

 whorl marked by eleven raised plications and intervening broad sulci, of which, 

 counting from the iimbilicus, the sixth rests upon the carina, and the eleventh 

 is close to the suture. These are crossed by striae of growth rising from the 

 nmbiliciis, stretching far forward upon the base, curving backwards just be- 

 fore reaching the carina, and apparently curving forward again after pass- 

 ing it. 



Height of shell 1-00 (100) ; diameter of base 2-00 (200) ; transverse diame- 

 ter of aperture -92(92). 



Localiti/. — Light-house, Pt. aux Barques, in intercalated sandstones of the 

 Huron group. 



This species lecaMs Euomphalus carinatu.^, Sow.. (Murch. Sil. Syst.. GIG, pi. 

 vi. fig. 10). 



Dentalicm, Linnaeus. 



Dextalicji ? Bakquexse, n. sp. — Shell small, very gradually tapering, 

 slightly compressed. Surface of cast smooth. Surface of shell unknown — 

 apparently striate or grooved transversely ; shell-structure prismatic, the 

 axes of the prisms being normal to the surface of the shell. The shortness 

 of these prisms gives the structure the appearance of miniature mosaic. Di- 

 ameter of fragment 'OG. 



Locality. — Pt. aux Barques, in a stratum overlying the gritstones. 



Belleeophox, Montfort. 



Bellekophon KUGOSirscuLcs, n. sp. — Shell of moderate size, globoid, very 

 rapidly enlarging ; umbilicus rather broad and deep, but not perforate — only 

 one whorl being exposed to view. Transverse section somewhat rhomboidal, 

 with rounded angles, becoming more rounded with age. Keel in the young 

 shell rather prominent, but obtuse, becoming more depressed with age, until 

 finally the dorsal surface is regularly rounded, and the sides have developed 

 bome obliquely longitudinal folds winding into the umbilicus. Aperture trans- 

 versely expanded, subreniform. The entire surface, except the peripheral 

 belt, is marked by direct, longitudinal raised striae, separated only by a nar- 

 row groove ; these are crossed by a set of transverse strire, which, on the um- 

 bilical slope are somewhat irregularly waved and more pronounced than on 

 the dorsum ; on passing the lateral angle they divide irregularly and result 

 in a set of finer strije, which are abruptly reflected in approaching the keel, 

 and in the older portion of the shell, gradually disappear before reaching it, 

 while in the young shell they meet upon the keel in an acute angle of about 

 58°. Cast nearly destitute of ornaments. 



Diameter of large specimen -77 (100) ; height of last whorl to the middle of 

 the umbilicus -52 (6S); height of aperture •'36 (47); width of aperture -54 

 (70) ; number of longitudinal striae in one-tenth of an inch 8 ; number of 

 transverse stri?e in one-tenth of an inch, counted on the umbilical slope 6, 

 counted on the keel 12 to 15. 



Localities. — Marshall and Sees. 19 and 2G, Liberty, .Jackson county. 



The general appearance of this shell is that of 13. d.^citr^satu.t, Flem., but a 

 careful examination of all the figures and descriptions in my possession, has 

 convinced me that it is a distinct though representative species. Want of 

 space, however, forbids offering the comparisons. 



Var. tfcniattis. This well-marked variety (perhaps distinct species) is tlie 

 form which approaches nearest to Sandberger's B. decu.txatux. It differs fro* 

 the usual forms of the present species in having a less depressed dorsum and 

 a smaller transverse diameter ; a more prominent keel which is bounded by 

 a slight elevation alon^r each mardn, and in its finer strire, especially on the 



1862.] 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



umbilical slope. la a specimen which is '6 (100) across the outer whorl, the 

 height of the aperture is "32 (53), its width -38 (63). The number of lon- 

 gitudinal striffi in one-tenth of an inch is about 14, and the number of trans- 

 verse strise 18. 



Locality. — Moscow, Hillsdale county. 



Bellerophon GALERicuLATtJS, u. sp. — Shell Small, globose, involute, ecarinate, 

 exumbilicate, longitudinally striate, and deeply notched. Dorsum broadly 

 and regularly rounded, without any evidences of a band, except in approach- 

 ing the aperture of adult shells, where a rather broad band with ventrally con- 

 cave incremental lines can be faintly traced. Aperture crescentic, not sud- 

 denly expanded, strongly auriculate, with the ears hanging detached from 

 the inner whorl. Notch infundibuliform, deep and broad, obtuse, its sides 

 reaching to the tips of the auriculations. Umbilicus closed, scarcely indented. 

 Dorsal and dorso-lateral surface marked by about 28 longitudinal, sharply 

 raised strije, separated by much wider flutings, and not perceptibly modified 

 by the dorsal band until within half a whorl of the aperture of the adult shell, 

 when the two middle striae become slightly raised and enlarged, and the entire 

 set simultaneously die away. Between these strije and the umbilical point 

 similar strise diverge spirally and irregular until intercepted by the former 

 set, or by each other. Cast smooth, perforately umbilicate. 



Average diameter of adult -47 (100) ; height of last whorl at the aperture 

 •26 (55) ; height of aperture '18 (38); showing the inner whorl impressed into 

 the outer -OS (17); width of aperture -35 (74); depth of notch -22 (•47); 

 width of peripheral belt at notch -06 (13) ; separating distance between tip of 

 auriculations and inner whorl '10 (21) ; number of striae in one-tenth of an 

 inch 10, and this is the same in young and old specimens. Diameter of 

 largest specimen seen "53. 



Localities. — Marshall, Battle Creek, and nearly all other Southern outcrops 

 of the Marshall Sandstone. 



This shell bears a close resemblance to B. Urei, of authors, but seems to 

 differ in essential points, as follows: — From B. Urii, de Kon. (An. Foss. 356, 

 XXX. 4) in being only half the size, having the dorsal belt elevated instead of 

 compressed, in its very deep notch, less proportional width and distinct auri- 

 culations ; from McCoy's B. Urei (Brit. Pal. Foss., 554) in having the striae 

 much narrower than the intervening grooves and not at all modified by the 

 dorsal band, and in having the width of the aperture less than the diameter 

 of the shell. Prof. Phillips' figures difi'er in the absence of auriculations, and 

 in the lateral striae. To Fleming's original description I have not access. 



Bellerophon cyetolites, Hall (13th Rep. N. Y. Reg., p. 107).— Shell sub- 

 cuneiform, laterally somewhat appressed ; whorls very rapidly enlarging, but 

 slightly embracing ; transverse section subcordate, broadest near the umbili- 

 cus ; dorsum strongly but obtusely carinated ; dorso-lateral slope nearly flat, 

 sometimes slightly concave near the peripheral belt ; sides regularly rounded, 

 as well as the umbilical slope ; umbilicus moderate, exposing only the last 

 volution ; notch deep, pointed, moderately broad. Entire surface of shell 

 ornamented with fine, sharply raised tranverse strire, which curve backwards 

 upon the side, and meet upon the dorsum in an angle of about 60*. The 

 umbilical region and the sides are equally marked by fine longitudinal strise, 

 which disappear in the vicinity of the keel. 



The largest specimen seen measures across the outer whorl '41 (100) : height 

 of aperture '23 (56) ; transverse diameter of aperture -19 (46), with about 

 13 longitudinal and 13 transverse striae in one-tenth of an inch, counted on 

 the dorso-lateral slope near the aperture. Another specimen with shell better 

 preserved has 10 transverse striae in the same distance. 



Locality. — Moscow, Hillsdale county. 



The side view and section of this species are not unlike those of B. com- 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



pressus, Sandb. (Verstein, Taf. xxii. C.) = B. striatus, Sow, My specimens 

 have the transverse section and external markings of the latter, but they are 

 less capuliform (See Mtirch. Sil. Syst., 604, iii. 12e). 



Bellerophon nautiloides, n. sp. — Shell involute, scarcely umbilicate, longi- 

 tudinally striate and deeply notched. Dorsum regularly rounded, sometimes 

 slightly raised along the peripheral band ; sides less convex than the dorsum, 

 bending into a small shallow umbilicus, not disclosing previous whorls. 

 Aperture crescentic, width about equal to its height, strongly auriculate. 

 Kot -h deep, but obtuse, broad, infundibnliform, with its margins reaching to 

 the tips of the auriculations. Exterior surface longitudinally striate, with 

 fine sharp raised lines marking the sides as well as the dorsum. Cast 

 smooth, perforately umbilicate, exposing two whorls. 



Diameter of large specimen -50 (100) ; height of whorl at aperture "31 (G2); 

 depth of impression of inner whorl iuto outer "09 (18) : height of aperture "22 

 (44) ; width of aperture "27 (54) ; separating distance between tip of auricu- 

 lation and inner whorl "10 (20) ; depth of notch '17 (34). 



I.ocaliti/. — Moscow, Battle Creek, Marshall, and near Grandville, Kent county. 



Bellerophon Michiganensis, n. sp. — Shell globose, carinate, involute, 

 scarcely umbilicate, longitudinally and transversely striate. Dorsum obtusely 

 angulated by the peripheral band, which is slightly raised, and more distinctly 

 relieved by a furrow which runs along each margin. Dorso-lateral surfaces 

 ■ regularly convex, bendinj^ (in the cast) abruptly into a small perforate umbil- 

 icus. Aperture suddenly and widely expanded, broadly auriculate, and with 

 a broad, rather shallow notch. Exterior of shell not seen ; casts generally 

 nearly smooth or faintly marked by longitudinal strise, sometimes distinctly 

 marked by two sets of striae, the longitudinal consisting of 8 to 12 prominent 

 raised lines on each side of the band, with one or two small intervening striae, 

 which gradually attain the size of the larger, these being crossed by finer, 

 less regular transverse striae, broadly curved anteriorly on th« sides and sud- 

 denly bent backwards on the dorsum. 



Diameter of last whorl (of cast) -23 (100); height of aperture -14 (61); 

 diameter of aperture -35 (152) ; diameter of whorl -08 (35) back from the 

 aperture '25 (109) ; diameter of next inner whorl where it touches the lip -17 

 (74) ; width of band close to aperture -07 (30) ; depth of notch -04 (17). 



Localities. — Battle Creek, and the vicinity of Grandville, Kent county. 



The characteristic of this species when compared with B. (lalericitlatus is its 

 great width in relation to its height, its much greater expansion of aperture, 

 and its transverse striae. The existence of a carina distinguishes it from B. 

 lineolatns, Hall, from Rockford (13th Ann. Rep. Reg., N. Y., 107). 



Bellerophon Bakquexsis, n. sp. — Shell small, globose, involute, rapidly en- 

 larging, dorsally depressed ; umbilicus small, but deep ; dorsum broadly con- 

 vex, with a distinct raised band ; sides sharply rounded iuto the umbilicus : 

 aperture crescentic, expanded, with a deep broad constriction behind it ; notch 

 deep and narrow. Surface marked by fine, regular, longitudinal lines, which 

 cover the band as well as the other parts. 



Diameter -48 (100) ; transverse diameter of aperture -54 (112) ; height of 

 aperture to middle of umbilicus -27 (56). 



Locality. — Pt. aux Barques, above the gritstones. 



Most nearly resembles B. Mickiganetms, but the apertural construction and 

 single set of strine render it easily distinguishable. 



Bellerophon lineolatcs. Hall (13th Rep. N. Y. Reg., p. 107).— An imperfect 

 specimen agreeing fully with Hall's description. 



Locality. — Holland, Ottawa county. 



Goxiatites, de Haan. 

 Goxiatites Romingeki, n. sp. — Shell of moderate size, globoid, exumbilicate. 

 1862.] 




^-S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Dorsum broad, regularly rounded ; sides gently rounded with only a sliglit 

 depression near the umbilical center. Septa approximate, thickened at the 

 line of junction with the shell, producing furrows along the septum-lines of 

 the oast. Lobes and saddles strongly pronounced. Dorsal lobe clavate lingui- 

 firm, with a long cuspidate acumination reaching as far back as the preceding 

 dorsal saddle ; dorsal saddle linguiform, obtuse, unsymmetrical, indented on 

 the dorsal side by the broadest part of the dorsal lobe, passing the point of 

 the following lateral lobe ; first lateral lobe profound, rather narrow, extend- 

 ing as far back as the dorsal, sublinguiform, acute ; lateral saddle deep, very 

 broad, somewhat regularly arched to the umbilical point, extending nearly as 

 far forward as the dorsal saddle. Exterior unknown ; surface of cast smooth. 



Diameter of cast of last whorl -84 (100) ; axial diameter -38 (46) ; greatest 

 transverse diameter of tube -42 (50) ; distance from axial diameter to dorsum 

 •47 (56) ; length of dorsal lobe -21 (25) ; of dorsal saddle -19 (22) ; of lateral 

 iobe -20 (24). 



Locality. — Marshall. 



This well-marked species resembles G. rotatorius, de Kon. and G. Ixinn, 

 Hall, in the plan of its septa ; but, besides its smaller size, its transverse 

 diameter is proportionally much greater, being to the whorl diameter as 1 : 2 

 instead of 1 : 3 ; and the diameter through the points of the lateral lobes is 

 as 1 : 2^, while in G. rotatorius it is as 1 : 4. The sides of the new species 

 are also more convex. 



Named in honor of its discoverer. Dr. C. Rominger, of Ann Arbor. 



GoxiATiTES Whitei, u. sp. — Shell very small, with siirfaces regularly convex, 

 a .-mall deep umbilicus and sinuous apertural constrictions. Dorsum rather 

 abruptly rounded, the curvature gradually diminishing on the sides, which 

 are a little appressed ; umbilical boundary rather sharply defined. Apertural 

 constrictions separated about 80*^ from each other, forming a broad, shallow, 

 ventral sinus across the dorsum, and a broader and shallower one on each 

 side. Surface of shell faintly marked by lines parallel with the apertural 

 constrictions, and in some cases by indications of fine crowded revolving striae. 

 Lobes and saddles strongly pronounced. Dorsal lobe truncately infundibuli- 

 tbrm, minutely bi-denticulate, with the minute circular siphon issuing from 

 between the denticulations ; first lateral lobe acute, infundibuliform, separated 

 from the dorsal by a deep parabolic saddle ; second lateral lobe, which is sep- 

 arated from the first by a broadly parabolic saddle, is broadly infundibuliform, 

 with its right angled apex resting on the brink of the umbiiieal pit. 



Diameter -SS (100) ; thickness or transverse diameter •21 (60). 



Locality. — Union, Branch county, in blue argillaceous shales of the Hurou 

 group. 



Named in honor of A. D. White, Esq., its discover. 



NACTiLrs, Linnjeus. Tkematodiscus, Meek & Worthen. 

 NACTaus (Teematodisccs) steigatus, n. sp. — Shell of medium size ; dorsum 

 flattened, broad, equal to the greatest transverse diameter, bounded by a 

 prominent angle on each side ; lateral surface making a right angle with the 

 dorsal, curving rapidly into the deep broad umbilicus ; dorso-ventral diame- 

 ter of shell equal to one-half the transverse. Surface marked by deep cut 

 longitudinal fiutings, of which about nine occupy the latero-umbilical region, 

 and six, less remote, occupy the space on each side from the dorso-lateral 

 angle half way to the middle line of the dorsum, thus leaving a middle belt 

 along the dorsum equal to one-half its width, destitute of longitudinal 

 grooves. The dorsal grooves nearer the midline become successively fainter, 

 but the last one is well marked. In the bottom of each of these furrows are 

 about three very fine longitudinal striae. These two sets are crossed by fine, 

 sharp, rather regular raised striae, which curve gently backwards on the sides, 

 while on the dorsal surface they are deflected, at first gradually, then very 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



rapidly backward, forming along tbe middle belt a very deep, broad sinus. 

 Septa regularly concave. Young shell less angular in transverse section. 



Diameter of whorl (wholly septate) 2*4 (100) ; width of dorsum -92 (39) ; 

 dorso-ventral dimension -53 (22) ; number of transverse striae in one-tenth of 

 an inch, counted on the dorso-lateral angle, about nine. 



Locality. — Marshall. 



The young shell of this species may be distinguished from the young of N. 

 striatulus, from the same group, by the presence of the transverse striae. 



Nautflus (Trematodisccs) altidorsalis, n. sp. — Shell rather large ; section 

 quadrilateral, presenting an acute angle on the dorsum, a very obtuse one on 

 the ventrum, and an angle of about 80° on each sidf^ about two-thirds the 

 distance from the dorsum to the ventnim ; sides of section but slightly curved ; 

 middle line of dorsum not seen. Septa with shallow concavity, somewhat 

 irregular — a shallow sinus occupying the lateral carina, and another the dor- 

 sal, with a slight forward swell on the dorso-lateral slope, and another in the 

 umbilical cavity— a very unusual arrangement of the sinuses, since the for- 

 ward sinuations are thus brought upon those points nearest the central line of 

 the shell. Surface marked by about S broad longitudinal grooves on the um- 

 bilical slope, and a large number on the dorso-lateral. Each of these grooves 

 contains about IS very fine, wavy, raised striae. Both sets are crossed by fine, 

 somewhat irregular, transverse striae, nearly direct, though slightly sinuated 

 vent rally on the umbilical slope. 



Diameter of (completed) whorl wholly septate 2-1 (100) ; dorso-ventral 

 ■ diameter of shell '67 (32) ; transverse diameter '78 (37) ; angle between plane 

 of whorl and dorso-lateral slope 48" ; between plane of whorl and umbilical 

 slope "55° ; longitudinal grooves in one-tenth of an inch 1§ ; longitudinal striae 

 in same distance 30 ; transverse striae in same distance, counted on lateral 

 carina, 8. 



Locality. — Marshall. 



This species, at first view, resembles N. strigatus, but is very distinct. Even 

 small fragments may be distinguished by the numerous very fine striae in the 

 grooves. 



Obthoceeas, Breynius. 



Orthoceras MFLTici>'CTnM, u. sp. — Shell small, very gradually tapering ; 

 section circular ; siphon central (?) ; surface marked by numerous small, acute, 

 transverse annuli, with intervening sharp grooves ; septa with shallow con- 

 vexity. Number of annuli in one-tenth of an inch 7. 



Localities. — Marshall and Holland. 



A close analogue of 0. cinctum, de Kon. (An. Foss. 512, xliii. 6, xliv. 5, 

 xlvii. 3), if it is not identical with it. The only perceptible distinction con- 

 sists in its smaller size and more acute annuli and grooves. 0. cinctum is said 

 to occur in the Silurian, Devonian and Carboniferous systems. A species with 

 such tenacity of life may have had a great geographical range. 



Orthoceras gracilius, n. sp. — Shell with an apical angle of 3^°, a circular 

 section and central siphon. Cast smooth ; interseptal space '04 where the 

 diameter is -9. 



Locality. — Union, Branch county, in argillaceous shales of the Huron group. 



Ctthere, Mil Her. 



Ctthbre CRASStMABGiNATA, n. sp. — Carapace minate, ventricose, regularly 

 oval, microscopically wrinkled-scrobiculate ; hinge-line impressed, and hinge- 

 margin a little hollowed ; valves margined by a smooth bead, which projects 

 slightly beyond the general surface, behind which is a small groove ; cast 

 smooth, but margined by a raised band terminating near the hinge anteriorly 

 and posteriorly. 



Length -08 ; breadth -05. 



1862.] 30 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Localities.— In the Marshall Sandstone, at Battle Creek, Liberty (Jackson 

 county), Moscow, near Napoleon and at the Gritstone Quarries, at Pt. aux 

 Barques, with Rhi/nchonella camerifera. 



Besides the species already enumerated from the Marshall group there yet 

 remain a fevP too imperfect for adequate description, or belonging to classes 

 not yet investigated. Among these are Lepidodendron and Neuropteris ? ; a 

 coralline structure, encrusting, foliaceous or branching, with minute, short, 

 crowded polygonal cells '0088 of an inch in diameter, without visible 

 lamell*, but with some indications of transverse floors ; some undetermined 

 Lamellibranchs ; two sorts of Chiton-like scales ; two or three Nautili, 

 of which one is nodulous ; and sundry remaiaa of spines, teeth and bones of 

 fishes. 



University of Michigan, July 1, 1862. 



Synopsis of the CAEANG^OISS of the Eastern Coast of North America. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



In the preparation of the " Catalogue of the Fishes of the Eastern Coast of 

 North America," I trusted almost wholly to previous naturalists for that portion 

 relating to the species of Scombroids and the allied groups. Drs. Dekay, Hol- 

 brook and Girard having each introduced supposed new forms, it was to be 

 presumed that they had studied the species in their various stages. My 

 attention having been since attracted especially to the Carangoids, it has 

 been discovered that the nomenclature of several was quite erroneous and 

 that some genera and species had been founded on young individuals of pre- 

 viously named forms. The preoperculum in early youth, as far as known, 

 is armed with three stout spines at the angle and smaller ones above and 

 below, the spinous dorsal is always developed at that period, and teeth are 

 also present. At a later period the spines of the preoperculum are absorbed 

 in the margin, while in some types the first dorsal becomes atrophied and is, 

 in several, represented by free and simple projecting spines, and at a still 

 later period the teeth are likewise lost. A single species of one such type 

 ( Trachi/notus) has served at different stages of gowth as a representative of 

 three different genera, characterized by the condition of the spinous dorsal 

 and the dentition. 



The following table will enable the student to distinguish the several groups. 

 Although the genus Pomatomus Lac. (Temnodon Cuv.), is here retained in 

 the family, I am not certain that it truly belongs to it. 



The object of the present article is to correct the nomenclature of several 

 species, as well as to draw attention to the imperfection of our information re- 

 garding several others, especially the species of the subfamily of Centronotinae. 

 No one will deny that it is for the interest of science that the nomenclature 

 of the genera and species of animals shall be settled as soon as possible, and 

 it is hoped that the present communication will contribute to that desirable 

 end as far as the American species of Carangoids are concerned. Much, how- 

 ever, yet remains to be done. Although I have seen all the species enumer- 

 ated, with one exception,* specimens, from the eastern coast, of several 

 are not represented in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution. Those 

 desired species are the following : — Decapterus pimctatus, Carangus fallax, 

 Biepharichthys crinitus, Trachynotus glattcw, N^aiicrates ductor, Zonichthys fas- 

 ciatus (young), and B. boscii. It is hoped that such deficiencies may be soon 

 remedied. 



• Halatracius boscii. 



[Sept 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



I. Lateral line behind straight and even with the axis. 



A. Lateral line more or less protected by larger plates.... Cakasgisje. 

 B. Body oblong or elongated; spinous dorsal developed. 

 C. Body perfectly fusiform ; snout above axis, 



1. Spurious dorsal (1) and anal (1) finlets Decapterus. 



2. Spurious finlets none Trachurops. 



CC. Body unequally developed with regard to axis, 



the dorso-rostral outline being disproportion- 

 ately decurved. 

 St. Head moderate ; suborbital bones moderately 

 elevated (=eye) ; teeth of jaws enlarged in 

 outer row. 

 Body subfusiform ; canine teeth none in front 



of lower jaw Paratractus. 



Body oblong ; canine teeth (2) in front of lower 



jaw Caraugus. 



/?. Head small; suborbital bones very low ; teeth 



of jaws villiform Carangops. 



BB. Body rhomboid ; spinous dorsal rudimentary in 



adult Blepharichthys. 



AA. Lateral line unarmed. 



B. Body exceedingly compressed and elevated ; profile 



very oblique or subvertical VoMERinf^. 



^. Body oblong ; abdominal outline very convex in 



youth; dorsal and anal fins nearly uniform Vomer. 



/?. Body obliquely elevated, pentagonal ; dorsal and 

 anal fins falciform. 



1. Ventral fins very short Selene. 



2. Ventral fins very long Argyriosus. 



BB. Body much compressed, with the inferior outline 



trenchant ; profile oblique and rectilinear ; anus 



behind ventral fins Chlokoscombkis.e. 



Chloroscombms. 

 BBB. Body less compressed, with the abdomen trans- 

 versely convex. Anus submedian or poste- 

 rior. 

 A. Abdomen considerably shorter than the anal fin, 



which nearly equals the second dorsal Tkachyxotin.s. 



Trachvnotus. 

 &. Abdomen nearly equal to the anal fin, which is 



much shorter than the second dorsal Cextroxoth.-je. 



Spinous dorsal represented by short and free spines 



in adult Naucrates. 



Spinous dorsal well developed. 



Head high Zonichthys. 



Head oblong Halatractus. 



IL Lateral line behind scarcely straight or even with the 



axis, but rather above PoMATOMiNic. 



CARANGIN^ (Bon.) GiU. 



Genus DECAPTERUS Bleeker. 



Decaptercs punctatus Gill. 

 Scomber hippos MiUhill (nee Linn.). 

 Caranx punctatns Agassiz, Cuv. et Val. 



This species appears to be a very rare and occasional straggler to the Northern 

 1862.] 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADE3IT OP 



Seas. No individnals from the United States are in the collection of the 

 Smithsonian Institution. It has only been noticed on our coast as a straggler 

 to New York. 



Genus TRACHUROPS Gill. 

 Tkachukops ceumenophthalmus Gill, 

 Scomber crumenophthalmus Bloch. 



" balantiophthalmus Bloch, Schneider. 

 " plumieri Bloch. 

 Caranx crumenophthalmus LacepMe. 

 " datibentonii Lac^pMe. 

 '* plumieri Cvv. et Val. 

 " macrophthalmus Agassiz. 

 A single specimen of this species was found at Beesley's Point, New Jersey, 

 among a school of blue fish {Pomatomus saltatrix), by Prof. Baird. 



The specific name and the reference of the African and American forms to 

 one species is given solely on the authority of Giinther, no specimens of the 

 foreign forms being at present accessible to me. Tlie Pacific representative or 

 Red Sea representative appears to be distinguished by its more slender body 

 and shorter head. 



Genus PARATRACTUS Gill. 



This genus embraces three of the species known which hare been referred 

 to Caranx. Besides the type, the Caranx fusus^ of GeofiFroy,* and the Trachu- 

 rus hoops, of Girard,f belong to it. 



Paratkacttjs pisquetus Gill. 

 Caranx pisquetos Citv. et Val. 



" chrysos DeJcay (nee Scomber chri/sos, Mit.) 

 " hippos HolbrooJc (nee Scomber hippos, Linn.) 

 Trachurus squamosus Gronov., post. 

 Carangus chrysos Girard. 

 " hippos Gill. 



This species was first considered by Dekay to be identical with the Scomber 

 chrysos, of Mitchill, whose specific name was consequently adopted. He has 

 been followed in this identification by all subsequent writers. Such an iden- 

 tification is evidently erroneous, as Mitchill expressly describes his species a3 

 having the "length six inches and a half; depth two." The height is there- 

 fore contained three times and a sixth (3^) in the length, J proportions which 

 are fully corroborated by the figure. It is probable that authors have been 

 misled hy the radial formula of Mitchill, which gives a larger number of rays 

 than is usually found in the species to which it really belongs. 



Holbrook has also identified this species with the Scomher hippos, of Lin- 

 naeus. § This reference is likewise evidently erroneous, as Linn^eu3 espe- 

 cially attributes two larger teeih in the front of the jaw, while in the present 

 species such teeth are not developed. 



The name given by Cuvier and Valenciennes being the first properly appli- 

 cable to the species, it must be adopted. 



» Geoffrey St. Hilaire, in Deacription de Egypte ; Histoire Naturelle, pi. 24, fig. 3, 

 (1809—13.) ^ ^ ^ 



t Girard, Surveys and Explorations for a Railroad Route to the Pacific, vol. x. Fishes, 

 p. 108 (1859.) 



X The heighth of Caranx pisqxietus is contained 3i— 31 times in the length ; this spe- 

 cies is, therefore, much more slender than Mitchill's fish. 



§ Holbrook erroneously considers the present epecies to bt also identical with the 

 Caranx chrytos of Cuvser and Valenciennes. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



The Paratractus pisqmetus is the most common of the tribe at the North, 

 and is found along the whole Eastern Coast as far north as Massachusetts. 



Genus CARANGCS Girard. 

 Caranx Bleeher. 



I have adopted Girard's name for this genus in the '' Catalogue of the Fishes 

 of the Eastern Coast," but afterwards, in deference to Bleeker, would have 

 accepted iu its place the name of Caranx, as applied by that gentleman. 

 I now feel compelled to return to my original position and retain the name of 

 Carangus for the present, while that of Caranx is preserved for the Caranx 

 speciosus of Lacepede.* Less confusion, I believe, will result from this cir- 

 cumscription than from any other, and appears to be fully justified by cir- 

 cumstances. 



Lacepede first applied the name of Caranx to a group which he distinguished 

 from Scomber on account of the absence of the dorsal and anal fiulets. He 

 has in the preliminary remarks acknowledged that he adopted the name from 

 Commerson, and has observed that the appellation was derived from the 

 Greek i«^a, and given in allusion to the prominent head.f Of the genus 

 thus derived from Commerson only one species seems to have been known to 

 that naturalist. That species is the Scoml>€r speciosns of Linnaeus, or the 

 Caranx speciosus of Lacepede. The idea conveyed by the name of Caranx is 

 well associated with the fish. As the name of Caranx was therefore first 

 framed for that species by Commerson, and as Lacepede, by virtue of his pre- 

 liminary remarks, adopted the genus as Commerson's, the name must be 

 retained for that natural genus, of which the Caranx speciosus is a representa- 

 tive. Bleeker's name of Gnathanodon applied to it, appropriate as it is, must 

 be then considered as a synonym. 



The genus to which Bleeker applied the name of Caranx being thus deprived 

 of that name, the one latinicised by Girard from the designation which Cuvier 

 had conferred on it as a group may be adopted. J 



The genus as now limited will only embrace three species found on the 

 eastern coast of the United States. Those species are distinguished by the 

 following relative characters : — 

 L Body rather oblong, with the snout very convex ; dorsal spines 



seven; pectoral fins with a distinct spot C. hippo?. 



n. Body convex above and with the front less obliquely decurved ; 

 dorsal spines eight ; pectoral fins not spotted. 



a.. Breast scaly. Opercular spot obsolete C. fallax. 



/?. Breast naked. Opercular spot distinct C. ehrysos, 



Carangcs fallax Girard- 

 Guara tereba Alarcgrave. 

 Caranx fallax Cuv. et Val. 

 Caranx richardii Holhrook. 



Caranx hippos Gilntker, (nee Scomber hippos Linn. ; nee Caranx hippos 

 Holbrook). 



* The Caranx apeciosm is ihe type of the genus Gnathanodon, of Bleeker. 



t Nous leur avons conserve le nom generique de Caranx, qui leur a ete donnc par 

 Commerson, et qui vient du mot Grec iLxpx lequei signifie lOte. Ce voyageur les a nom. 

 mes ainsi a cause de lespece de prominence que presente leur tCtc, de la force de cette 

 partie, de I'eclat donte elle brille, et d'ailleurs pour annoncer la sorte de puissance et de 

 domination que plusieurs osseux de ce genre exercent sur un grand nombre de poissons 

 qui frequentent les rivages. 



t It is probable that Rafinesque has framed a name for this genus, as Lacopede placed 

 its type as the first of an anonymous subgenus, and in accordance v\ith his system, that 

 confounder of nonienclature has doubtless conferred on it a generic name. I am unable 

 at present to examine his early works. 



1862.] 




434; PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The only evidence of the existence of this species on the eastern coast is a 

 figure of a fish, taken near Charleston, executed by Mr. Richard, a Zoological 

 artist. The fish itself was afterwards lost, but not until after the figure had 

 been completed from it. On the authority of this figure. Dr. Holbrook has con- 

 sidered the species as undescribed, su^jposing it to be distinguishable from the 

 " Caranxfallax" by the want of the "dark color of the anterior rays of the 

 second dorsal fin." Even if the color of that fin was as light as represented 

 in the figure, it would not indicate a specific difference from that species, and 

 consequently the name must be referred, for the present at least, to such, spe- 

 cies with which it agrees, according to the figure, by its scaly breast and ab- 

 sence of an opercular spot. Dr. Griinther* has referred the name to the sy- 

 nonymy of Carangus chnjsos {Caranx carangus) , but as it disagrees with that 

 species in the same respect as it agrees with C. fallax, the accuracy of that 

 reference is very questionable. My personal knowledge of the artist by 

 whom the figure was made induces me to confide in the correctness of his 

 drawing. 



Carangus hippos Gill. 

 Caranx erythrurus Lac. 

 Caranx carangus pt. Cuv. et Val. 



" defensor Dekay, 

 Carangus defensor Girard. 



This species is well distinguished among its relations by its straighter back, 

 the more obliquely convex profile, the seven spines of the dorsal fin, and the 

 spot on the inferior portion of the pectoral fin. The first notice that can be 

 positively referred to this species alone is the description and figure by Dekay 

 of the Caranx defensor. There can, however, be little doubt that Linnaeus 

 had it in view in his Scomber hippos. 



The Carangus defensor is found along the eastern coast from New York 

 southwards. 



The brief notice given by Linnaeus of the Scomber hippos,] sent to him by 

 Garden from Charleston, South Carolina, is more applicable to this species 

 than to any other found on the coast. It has nevertheless been referred to 

 three others, the iJecaptcrus punctatus, Carangus fallax and i\xQ Paratractm 

 j'i&quetus of the present memoir. 



The referrence to the two large front teeth of the jaw at once excludes the 

 Paractractus. 



The notice of the opercular spot forbids the reference of the name to the 

 Caranx fullrtx. 



With regard to its application to the Caranx carangus, or the C. defensor, 

 there is more uncertainty. The Linnsean diagnosis contains no allusion to a 

 pectoral spot, a character so prominent that it should scarcely have been left 

 unnoticed if it had existed, but as the number of dorsal spines, as given by 

 Linnseus, corresponds with the number found in Carangus defensor, the name 

 of Carangus hijipos is, therefore, accepted as the proper name for the present 

 species. 



Carangus chkysos Gill. 

 Scomber carangus Block. 



* Giinther, Catalogue of the Acanthnpterygian Fishes, vol. ii. p. 448. 

 t The description left by Linnsus is the following: — 

 S. hippos pinnulis unitis, operculis posiice macula nigra. 



22 

 B. 7. D. 7, 22. P. 22. V. 6. A. — . C. 30. 



40 

 Hahilat in Carolina, Dr. Garden. 



Dentes unica serie; aniicis 2 majoribus. Linea lateralis in medio valde declivat.i. 

 postice cannata subspinosa. P. dorsalis posterior rubra- \'entralis analisque lutex. 

 Spins ante. Analem rcmots. 



[Sept. 



J 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



Caranx carangua Lac. 



Scomber chrysos Mitchill (nee Caranx chrysos Dekay et al.)- 



Caranx carangus Cuv. et Val. 



" antiiliarum Bennett (fide Giinther). 

 Trachurus cordyla Gronov. (fide Giiutlier). 

 Carangus esculentus Girard. 



The Scomber carangus, of Blocli, is identical with the Scomber chrysos, of 

 Mitchill, as is readily seen on the examination of his figure. The length of 

 Scomber chryios is said to be "six inches and a half; depth two ;" the height _ 

 would thus be contained three times and a sixth in the length, proportions 

 which are corroborated, or represented as at least equally great, by the figure 

 accompanying Mitchill's memoir. The only species living on the coast of the 

 more temperate United States which exhibit those proportions are the Caranx 

 carangus, of Cuv. et Val., and the Caranx fallax, of Cuv. et Val. 



There is said to be " a black spot frequently at the edge of the gill cover ;" 

 this portion of the description thus excludes the Caranx fallax. 



Mitchill further adds that there are "no zones, stripes, or spots any where 

 about him ;" the opercular spot is, of course, to be excepted. This denial of 

 other spots additionally excludes the more oblong Caranx defensor, of Dekay, 

 which has a distinct pectoral blotch. 



The only plausible objection that can be urged against the preceding iden- 

 tification is the number of rays in the second dorsal, which is said to be "24" 

 (= I. 23), while in the Caranx carangus that number is exceptional, but as it 

 i? possibly occasionally found, the objection on that score may even be unten- 

 able.* It is in any case certain that no species, except the Caranx pisquetos, 

 of Cuv. et Val., has normally the number of rays assigned to the dorsal fin of 

 the Scomber chrysos, f and it is equally evident that those latter two are not iden- 

 tical when the diflference of form and the number of anal rays is taken into 

 consideration. As the description and figure of the Scomber chrysos are there- 

 fore most applicable to the Caranx carangus, of Cuvier,t the two species must 

 be considered as referrible to one species, for which the name of Carangus 

 chrysos may be accepted. 



Two Virginian specimens of Carangus hippos are in the Smithsonian collec- 

 tion, one of which was presented by Commodore Farragut, and the other 

 by Dr. Jeffries, both having been obtained at Norfolk. It has also been ob- 

 served at New York and South Carolina. 



Genus CARANGOPS Gill.§ 

 Cakaxgops falcatus Gill. 

 Caranx falcatus Holbrooh. 



* 1 have myself counted the dorsal rays of twenty individuals of the Caranx caran- 

 fjus and have found twenty soft rays in twelve specimens, twenty-one in seven, and twenty- 

 two in a single one. No other scientific ichthyologist has assigned a larger number than 

 the last to the species, and it is possible that the number given by Mitchill may be due to 

 a typographical error, or that he has counted the last double ray as two, 



t To those who may discover that Holbrook attributes twenty-three soft rays to the 

 dorsal fin of Caranx defensor, I need simply refer to Holbrook's own figure, which 

 represents twenty, and to Dekay's description which assigns the same number, which I 

 have likewise verified on the two in the Smithsonian collection, besides others seen else- 

 where. That number seems indeed to be almost constant. It is quite possible »hai 

 Mitchill, who was by no means exempt from errors, may have made a similar mistake. 



t The Caranx fnllax, with ihe operculum spotless, has not yet been ascertained to 

 have wandered further north than Charleston. 



§ When proposing this name I was perfectly well aware that an extinct genus of fishes 

 had been called Carangopsis by Agassiz, but I applied the name of Carangops to the 

 present genus as the two appeared to me to be quite distinct enough to prevent con- 

 fusion. 



1862.] 




436 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Caraiigus falcatus Girard, Gill. 

 Caraux amblyrhynchus pt. Giiniher. 



This species lias been considered by Giinther as identical with the Carangops 

 amhli/rhi/nchics ( Caranx amblip-Jiijnchus Cuv. et Val.), of the Brazilian Coast, but 

 if the proportions of the two forms are constant, such cannot be the case. 

 The Carangops amblyrhtjnchus is described and figured by Cuvier and Valen- 

 ciennes as a higher fish with a larger head. The height of that fish is con- 

 tained two times and two-thirds in the total length, or about twice (fide figure) 

 in the length to the base of the external caudal rays, while in C falcatus the 

 height is rather less than a third of the length, or a line twice the height 

 would cease some distance before the end of the vertical fins. Thus even if 

 the caudal fin of C. amhlyrhynchus is unequal — which is denied by the figure 

 and not noticed in the description — the C. falcatus is distinguishable from it. 



Only known in the United. States as an inhabitant of Charleston. 



Genus BLEPHARICHTHYS Gill. 

 Blepharis Cuvier. 



The name of Blepharis cannot be retained for this group of Carangoids as 

 it had previously been bestowed on a valid genus of plants by Jussieu. 



Blephakichthys ckinitcs Gill. 

 Zeus crinitus Akedy. 

 Blepharis major Cuv. et Val. 

 " sutor Cuv. et Val. 

 " crinitus Delcay. 

 This species is rare along the eastern coast, no specimens from that coast 

 being in the Smithsonian collection. It has hitherto been seen at New York. 



Subfamily VOMERIINyE Gill. 

 Genus VOMER Cuv. 

 Platysomus Sicainson. 



Vomer setipinkis Ayres. 

 Silver-fish Funnel. 

 Rhomboida Brown. 

 Poisson lune Desmarchais. 

 Zeus setapinnis Mitchill. 

 Vomer brownii Cuv. et Val. 

 Platysomus brownii Swains. 

 " spixii Swains. 



" micropteryx Swains. 



Argyreiosus setipinnis Gthr. 



Younj. 

 Argyreiosus uuimaculatus Batcheler. 



" vovaer (young? an spec nov.?) Gthr. 



The young of this species has the abdomen much curved and extended 

 downwards, and a spot at the commencement of the lateral line. This dis- 

 covery, made last winter and. communicated to several American ichthyolo- 

 gists, has been recently confirmed by the independent observations of M. Poey. 

 The number of dorsal rays is almost always twenty-one or two ; the variety 

 B with twenty-five rays, noticed by Dr. Gunther, is therefore a distinct spe- 

 cies, and may be named Vomer dorsalis. 



Genus SELENE Lacepede, Brevoort. 

 Selexe argentea Lacepede. 

 Selene argentea Lac, Cuvier (1817). Stark (1S18). Brevoort 1851-53). GUI. 

 (1861). Poey (1861). 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 437 



Zeus geometricus Mitcldll (1818). 



Argyreiosus vomer Agassiz (1828, Syn. excl.) Cuvier (1829). Cuv. et Val, 



(1833). Gunther (1860) desc. excl. 

 Selene argentata Mindling (1832). 

 Argyreiosus triacauthus Swainson (1839). 



" mauriceii Swainson (1839). 



" spixii Castlenau. 



This species which has been so singularly unfortunate in its nomenclature 

 was first identified in nature by Mr. Brevoort, who published an excellent de- 

 scription and figure of it eleven years ago, which should have presented fur- 

 ther confusion ; it has nevertheless been overlooked, and the species has 

 been since by one author described as new, and by another been referred to 

 the Argyriosus vomer. It has been only noticed on the eastern coast at New 

 York. 



Genus ARGYRIOSUS Lacepede. 



Argykiosus vomer Lac. 

 Zeus vomer Linn. 



" niger Block. 



" rostratus Mitchill. 

 Argyriosus setifer Swainson. 



Found along the entire eastern coast south of Cape Cod. 



Argyriosus capillaris Dekay. 

 Zeus capillaris Mitchill. 

 Argyreiosus mitchilli Dekay. 



This species is readily distinguished by the filamentous prolongation of the 

 third, as well as second, dorsal spine. Its range appears to be co-extensive 

 with the foregoing. 



Subfamily CHLOROSCOMBRIN^ Gill. 

 Genus CHLOROSCOMBRUS, Girard. 

 Micropteryx Agassiz (nee Zeller). 



Chloroscombrus cheysurus, Gill. 

 Scomber chrysurus Linn. 

 Scomber chloris Block. 

 Micropteryx cosmopolita Agassiz. 

 Seriola cosmopolita Cuv. et Val. 

 Scomber latus Gronov. 

 Chloroscombrus cosmopolita Girard. 

 Chloroscombrus caribbaeus Girard. 



This species diS'ers considerably in the vertical extension of the body with 

 age, it being much higher when young than when fully grown. 



Subfamily TRACHYNOTIN.E Gill. 

 TR AC H YNOTUS (Lac. ) Cuv. 

 Trachinotus Lac, (Trachynotus ovatus). 

 Caesiomorus Lac, (Trachynotus bailloni). 

 Acanthinion Lac, (Trachynotus ovatus.) 

 Baillonus Rafincsque ( Trachynotus bailloni)*. 

 Bothrolfemus Eolhrooh. 

 Doliodon Girard. 



* Rafinesque Analyse de la Nature. This work is not at present accessible, but the 

 name l?at7Zo72us was doubtless introduced for the Caesiomorus bailloni of Lacepede. 



1862.] 




438 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Cautor* and Bleekerf first noticed the changes the species of this genus 

 undergo witli age, while Giinther, applying this knowledge to the re-arrange- 

 ment of the entire genus, has reduced the twenty-two species of that genus 

 admtted by Cuvier and Valenciennes to ten, and even of that number, two 

 could not be distinguished by the descriptions published, and were considered 

 doubtful. Ten of the specific names of Cuvier and Valencienes have been 

 referred to one species {Track ijnotus ovatus Gthr.), but it is possible that two 

 species may hereafter be recognized among them. 



The four species and three genera of Trachynotinse admitted among the 

 fishes of the Eastern coast of the United States, are reducible to two species 

 of a single genus, but as a genuine species must be added to the list, three 

 species are again to be distinguished which may be recognized by the follow- 

 ing characters. 



I. Body rhomboid, very elevated, about twice as long as high. 



D. VI. I. 18-21. A. II. I. 16-19 T. ovatps. 



II. Body oblong, 3 to 3^ times as long as high. 



a. Sides with four blackish linear bands. D. VI. I. 19. A. 



II. I. 17 T. GLAUCUS. 



il. Sides uniform, silvery. D. V-VI. I. 24-26. A. II. I. 



21-24 T. CAKOLISUS. 



Tkachysotus ovatus Gunther. 

 Gasterosteus ovatus TAnn. 

 Centronotus ovalis Lac. 

 Chaetodon rhomboides Block. 

 Acanthinion rhomboides Lac. 

 The Spinous Dory Mitckill. 

 Zeus spinosus Mitckill. 

 Trachinotus rhomboides Cuv. et Val. 

 " fuscus Cuv. et Val. 

 " teraia Cur. et Val. 

 ' ' spinosus Cuv. et Val. 

 Lichia spinosa Baird. 

 Doliodon spinosus Girard. 



This species is less common along the eastern coast than the Trachi/notus 

 carolinus. 



The synonymy above given includes only the names bestowed on the Amer- 

 ican specimens, J as it is not yet quite evident that the American and Asiatic 

 forms belong to the same species. 



Tkachtxotus glaccds Cuv. et Val. 

 Chaetodon glaucus Block. 

 Acanthinion glaucum Lac. 

 Trachinotus glaucus Cuv. et Val. 



The species has been recently introduced into the Fauna of the United 

 States by Dr. Holbrook, by whom it was discovered at Charleston, South Caro- 

 lina. The latter is the only State in the Union along whose coast its occur- 

 rence has yet been commemorated by a naturalist. 



Trachyxotus carolixus Gill. 

 Gasterosteus carolinus Linn. 

 Centronotus carolinus Lac. 

 Trachinotus pampanus Cuv. et Val, 



* Cantor, Catalogue of Malayan Fishes, p. 121, 1850. 



t Bleeker, Verhantlelingen van liet Bataviaasch Genootschap deel sxiv. Bydrage tot de 

 Kennis der Makreelachtige Visschen, p. 48, 1852. 

 tThe habitat of the Gasterosteus ovatus has not been mentioned by Linnaeus. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 439 



Trachinotus argenteus Cuv. et VaL, Gill. 

 Traohinotus cupreus Cuv. et Val. 

 Lichia Carolina DeJcaij. 

 Bothrolaemus pampanus HoJh., Gill. 

 Doliodon carolinas Girard, Gill. 



In the " General Remarks" on this species, Dr. Holbrook, referring to De- 

 kay's name for this species (Lichia Carolina), has remarked that the absence 

 of teeth forbids its reference to the genns Lichia ; "nor can his specific name 

 be retained, as that of Cuvier and Valenciennes has the right of priority ; 

 unless, indeed, it could be satisfactorily proved that our crevalle is identical 

 with the Gasterosteus carolinu^ of Linnfeus, and this cannot be done, as that 

 animal must be a caranx, it having a carina along its tail. Yet it is almost 

 certain that the crevalle of Dr. Garden, which Linnaeus quotes as s. synonym, 

 is the animal now under consideration ; for the name crevalle or caralli was 

 commonly applied to this fish, even in the time of Garden, as I have been 

 informed by his contemporaries, and if we consider the great estimation in 

 which this fish is held by epicures, and the price it commands in market 

 above all others, it is not probable that its name has been changed."* 



Linnaeus gives the following description of his Gasterosteus carolinus, 



Gasterosteus caroliscs, spinis dorsalibus 8, analibus 3, 

 8 3 



D. - 26. P. 18, V. 5. A. — (= 27-3 = IIL 24). C. 27. 



8 27 



Corpus oblongo-ovatum. Linea lateralis recta ad caudam subcarinata. P. 

 D. and A. falcatae. Cauda bifurca. Habitat in Carolina ubi Crevalle dicitur. 



It is scarcely necessary to argue that this description can not be applied to 

 any Carangine fish of the American or any other coast, as the existence of 

 free spines instead of a dorsal fin,t straight course of the lateral line, its want 

 of armature j and the radial formula at once render evident. 



In all respects in which it thus differs from the Caranginae, it agrees with 

 the Trachynotus pampanus of Cuvier, § and more or less disagrees with any 

 other known species. These characters as well as the immediate approxima- 

 tion of the species to one admitted to be a Trachynotus ( G. ovatus) and the 

 popular name and habitat assigned to it, render it certain that the Gasterosteus 

 carolinus is the Trachynotus pampanus C. V., and the Bothrolaemus pampanus of 

 Holbrook, and that the species must be consequently called Trachynotus caro- 

 lin^'is. 



Blindly confiding in the accuracy and knowledge of my predecessors, and 

 neglecting to question Nature herself, I have in the Catalogue of the Fishes 

 of this coast, admitted the four nominal species distributed among the genera 

 by implication admitted by them. The characters of the several genera and 



"" Holbrook, Ichthyology of South Carolina, p, 84, 1855. 



tTfais character is of course implied by the reference of the species to the genus Gas- 

 terosteus. 



t Linnaeus knew two species of the genus Caranx as understood by Cuvier. Of one o*" 

 these (Carana: trachums) the lateral line was said to be mailed {Linea lateralis lorica- 

 ta) and of the other {Carangus hippos), carinaied and subspinose [Linea lateralis carina- 

 la, suhspinosa). The curvaiure of each was also noticed. The phrase "subcarnata," 

 was therefore evidently not intended to describe the lateral line of a Caranx, but to in- 

 dicate the distinctness of the line of the species to which the name of Gasterosteus 

 carolinus is here referred. 



?I have found the same large number of dorsal and anal rays as that noiiced bv Lin- 

 8 3 



naeus. (D. - 26. A. — = D. VIL 1. 26. A. II. I. 24\ although such a number is of rare 



8 27 



occurrence. 



1862.1 




440 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



species, as understood from the examination alone of the literature of the " 

 science, are indicated in the following synopsis. 



I. Teeth developed. 



a. Spinous dorsal developed Doliodon. 



6\ Spinous dorsal replaced by free spines Trachynotus. 



II. Teeth of jaws and pharyngeal bones absent. Dorsal spines 



free Bothrolaemus. 



The two species of Doliodon were distinguished by their height and the 

 number of rays, and are really distinct. One of them, however, also appear- 

 ed under two other genera. The differences above signalized are the result of 

 age. 



When extremely young, the preoperculum is armed at the angle with three 

 large spines, and smaller ones above and below. The spinous dorsal is de- 

 veloped as a perfect fin, and teeth are present on the jaws and palatine arch. 

 In this stage the species has never been described by previous naturalists, and 

 consequently has received no name as the corresponding stage of Naucrates*has. 



At an early period, the preopercular spines are absorbed in the substance of 

 the preoperculum and disappear. The spinous dorsal and the teeth are still 

 retained. In this condition it remains for some time ; the spinous dorsal, 

 however, gradually losing its relative size, while the soft vertical fins increase. 

 In this stage the species belongs to the genus Doliodon of Girard.f 



At a later period, the membrane connecting the dorsal spines has become 

 obsolete, and the species then represents the genus Trachynotus as under- 

 stood by Cuvier and Valenciennes and others. 



Finally, in old age the teeth of the jaws, palate and pharyngeal bones have 

 fallen out, and the lobes of the dorsal, anal and caudal fins attained their 

 greatest extension and become pointed. This final stage has been made known 

 by Holbrook under the new generic name of Bothrolaemus. 



The various differences in the development of the soft fins and the den- 

 tition were correctly appreciated by Giinther, and the several names have 

 been referred to the synonymy of the species to which all belong. 



It is a rather singular coincidence that Linnaeus has found the same num- 

 ber of rays in his Gasterosteus saltatrix which is the Pomatomus saltatrix of 

 the present article, as in the G. ovaius, and this identity of the radial formu- 

 lae has induced Schneider to unite the two species which belong to at least 

 diflferent subfamilies, f 



Subfamily CENTRONOTIN^ Gill. 

 Genus NAUCRATES (Raf.) Cuv. 

 Seriola sp. Cuv. et Val. 

 Nauclerus Cuv. et Val. 



Nacckates ductor (Raf.) 



Adult. 

 Gasterosteus ductor Linn. 

 Gasterosteus antecessor, Daldorf. 

 Scomber ductor Block. 



" koelreuteri Block. 

 Centronotus conductor Lac^plde. 

 Naucrates fanfarus Raf. 



" ductor Cuv. et Val. 



* The eenus Nauclerus corresponding to this stage of Naucrates was proposed \>y 

 Cuvier, and has been unreservedly adopted by every succeeding naturalist. 



t The corresponding siage of Naucrates has been observed by Cuvier and Valenciennes, 

 and made known under the namrs of Seriola dussumieriand S. succincta. These species 

 have been adopted by their successors. 



I See Hietoire Naturelle des Poissons, tome is. p. 229. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



Naucrates noveboracensis Cuv. et Val. 



" indicus Cuv. et Val. 



*' koelreuteri Cuv. et Val. 



" ductor Swainson. 



" cyanophrys Swains. 



" serratus Swains. 

 Thynnus pompilus Gronov. ( Gray ed. ) 



Young loith dorsal spines connected. 

 Seriola dussnmieri Cuv. et Val. 

 " succincta Cuv. et Val. 



Young with spinous dorsal Jin and preopercular spines. 

 Nauclerus compressus Cuv. et Val. 



" abbreviatus Cuv. et Val. 



" brachycentrus Cuv. et Val. 



" triacanthus Cuv. et Val. 



" annularis Cuv. et Val. 



" leucurus Cuv. et Val. 

 The above synonymy has been given on the authority of Dr. Grlinther as 

 far as the union of the forms described under the generic name of Nau- 

 crates are concerned ; the Seriolje and Naucleri added to it are young fishes of 

 this genus, and if all the forms referred to Naucrates belong to one species, 

 the Seriolfe and Naucleri are doubtless the young of that single species. 

 Much doubt is however entertained as to the correctness of this union of so 

 many species. If. aught may be judged from the examination of single spe- 

 cimens, the species of the Mediterranean sea differs from a Pacific one* of 

 nearly the same size, by the higher body, the shorter head, the smaller eye, 

 the ecarinate forehead, and especially the breadth of the lingual band of 

 teeth, which is about three times as broad and extends farther forwards than 

 in the Pacific specimen. | The vomerine patch is also wider and shorter, a? 

 well as blunt behind, and the tongue is shorter. Differences like these can- 

 not in this case be well attributed to age or condition, and are apparently spe- 

 cific. But as Cuvier and Valenciennes have not made use of these charac- 

 ters, but distinguished their species on the most trivial grounds, and as Giin- 

 ther, with much better opportunies than those enjoyed by me, has considered 

 them all identical, I provisionally accept his synonomy, until we may better 

 know the value of the character referred to. There can at least be scarcely 

 any doubt that there is only one Naucrates on the eastern coast of America, 

 as the difference of color on account of which the N. novehoracensis has been 

 distinguished from N. ductor, is, as Cuvier and Valenciennes have themselves 

 suggested, the result of alteration by liquor. J 



No specimen of Naucrates from the United States is in the Smithsonian 

 collection. 



Genus ZONICHTHYS (Swainson). § 



Sekiola Cuv. (nee Gaertner). 

 The name Zonichthys was proposed by Swainson for the Scomber fasciatus 



* One from Honolulu, one of the Sandwich Islands, sent to the Smithsonian Institution 

 by the Rev. W. H. Pease. It is rather shorter than the European one. 



t By analogy, the Sandwich Island specimen being smaller, the height of the bodv 

 should be greater, and the teeth more developed than in the European one. 



t The Mediterranean specimen of Naticrales ductor from the Bonaparte collection, re- 

 ceived from the Academy of Natural Sciences, has the same yellow color as the nominal 

 A', novtboraciuftia. 



jThis genus does not embrace the Seriola gigas of Gunrher (nee Poey) which is distin- 

 guished by the eight dorsal spines, shorter second dorsal fin aod subrhomboidal patch ol 

 vomerine teeth. It may be called JS'aucralopsns gigo». Another allied genus is the 

 Elogatis of Bennett, which is also the Seriolickthys of B\eckei, Decaptus of Poey. and 

 finally Irex of Valenciennes. 



1862.] 




442, PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



of Bloeli, and as that of Seriola had been previously accepted for a genus of 

 plants, the former may be retained for the homonymous genus of Ichthyology. 

 Like so many other genera proposed in the miserable work of Swainson, the 

 Zonichthys of that author is founded on one of Bloch's figures, and is simply 

 the result of a misapprehension. 



The species of Zonichthys appear to be subject to considerable variations. 

 The bands become less distinct, or even obsolete with age, the ventrals are 

 abbreviated, and the height seems to even decrease. The validity of the 

 Zonichthys boscii and Z. carol inen^ is is therefore not quite certain. The for- 

 mer has not been seen by me. The following synopsis displays the appa- 

 rent differences of the several species : 



I. Head rather higher than long, with the profile boldly de- 



cnrved Z. fasciatus. 



II. Head longer than high Hatatractus. 



a. D. VII. I. 31. A. II. I. 20. Body efasciate Z. boscii. 



ft. D. VII. I. 32-34. A. II. I. 10-20. Body with 6 bands, 



3 ascending on dorsal and 2 on anal Z. zonatus. 



y. D. VII. I. 36, 37. A. II. I. 19-20. Body efasciate.. Z. caroliniensis. 



Zonichthys fasciatus, Swainson. 



Scomber fasciatus Bloch. 

 Seriola fasciata Cuv. et Vol. 



I have never seen a specimen of this species, unless a large one, without 

 bands, may be an aged form of it. 



The Zonichthys fasciatus is probably the only species of the United States 

 which truly belongs to this genus. The other species referred to it are 

 distinguished by the subfusiform shape and the elongation of the head and 

 doubtless belong to another genus which maybe called Halatractus, the type 

 of which may be found in the Zonichthys zonatus, a congener of »Seno/a(fw7neri7j/. 



HALATRACTUS Gill. 

 Halatractus bosch Gill, 

 Seriola boscii Cuv. et Val. 



Some of the specimens of Zonichthys in the Smithsonian collection appear 

 to be referrible to this species, which was first discovered at Charleston by 

 the naturalist to whom it has been dedicated. 



Halatractus zonatus Gill. 



Scomber zonatus Mitchill. 

 Seriola zonata Cuv. et Val. 

 Seriola leiarchus Cuv. et Val. 



Giinther appears to be correct in his union of the Seriola sonata and 5. 

 leiarchus of the Histoire Naturelle des Poissons. The species ranges from 

 New York southwards. A specimen between six and seven inches long, the 

 tips of whose ventral fins cover the anus appears to represent a younger stag*" 

 of this species. It was obtained at Charleston. 



Halatractus carolinensis Gill. 

 Seriola carolinensis Holhrook. 

 Seriola zonata Giinther. 



This species appears to diflFer from the foregoing by the less height of thf 

 body and the more numerous rays of the second dorsal and anal fins, as well 

 perhaps as by the color. The latter, however, is perhaps due to age. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



Subfamily POMATOMIN^S Gill. 



Genu3 POMATOIIUS, Laxsepede. 

 Gonenion Raf. 

 Temnodon Cuv. et Val. 



POJIATOMCS SALTATRIX Gill. 



Gasterosteus saltatrix Linn. 



Scomber saltator Block. 



Cheilodipterus lieptacanthus Lac. 



Pomatomus skib Lac. 



Goneuion serra Raf. 



Scomber plumbeus Mitchill. 



Temnodon heptacantbus Quoy and Gainard. 



Temnodon saltator Cuv. et Val. 



This species is very abundant along the entire eastern coast of the United 

 States. 



Description of a new generic type of MOEMYROIDS and Note on 

 the arrangement of the genus. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



The Mormyroids now known appear to be distributable among two sub- 

 families and eight genera which may be briefly distinguished by the following 

 characters : 



I. Dorsal very long, commencing in front of ventrals. Anal very short. 



Vomer covered by anterior processes of palatine bones. 



Cerebellum entirely concealed above Moe3itri>m. 



Muzzle tubuliform Mormyrus. 



Muzzle obtuse Mormyrodes. 



II. Dorsal commencing more or less behind the ventrals. 



Anal oblong or elongated. Vomer uncovered. Ce- 

 rebellum and quadrigeminal bodies more or less ex- 

 posed Petsccephali.nm:. 



A. Mouth considerably in advance of the eyes. 



1 . Anal rather shorter than dorsal Isichthvs. 



2. Anal less than twice as long as dorsal (D. 17-26. 



A. 25-50). 

 at. Lower jaw without flap or barbel. Upper jaw 



longer Marcusenius. 



Lower jaw prominent Mormyrops. 



/?. Lower jaw with a conical flap or barbel Gnathonemus. 



3. Anal three times as long as dorsal. Palatal teeth 



pisiform Hyperopisus. 



AA. Snout produced. Mouth under eyes Petrocephalus. 



MORMYRIN^ Gill. 



MoRMYRcs Linn. 

 Scrophicephalus Sw. 

 Mormyrus caschive Hass. 



MORXTTRODES Gill. 



Mormyrodes hasselquistii = Mormyrus hasselquistii Geoffrey. 

 PETROCEPHALINiE Gill. 



ISICHTHTS Gill. 



Isichthys henryi Gill. 

 1862.] 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Marcusenius Gill. 

 Marcusenius anguilloides ^ Monnyrus anguilloides Linn. 



MoRMTEOPs Miiller. 

 Mormyropa cyprinoides = Mormyrus cyprinoides Linn, (nee Geoffrey.) 



Gnathonemus Gill. 

 GnathonemiTS petersii = Mormyrus petersii GUnther. 



Hyperopiscs Gill. 

 Hyperopisus dorsalis = Mormyrus dorsalis Geoffroy. 



Petrocephalus Marcusen. 

 Petrocephalus bane ^= Mormyrus bane Val. 



ISICHTHYS Gill. 



Body anguilliform, with the height subequal as far as the caudal peduncle, 

 which is abruptly attenuated. Scales rather small. Head oblong, about 

 twice as long as high. Snout scarcely projecting, and convex. Mouth trans- 

 verse ; the periphery of each jaw convex in front. Teeth compressed and 

 with emarginated summits. Eyes small, considerably behind the vertical 

 from the mouth. Nostrils simple, small, two in a longitudinal line in front 

 of each eye. Dorsal fin elongated, nearly equalling half the total length, 

 separable from the back at the base of the membrane between the rays. Anal 

 fin rather shorter than the dorsal, coterminal with it and constructed at its 

 base like the dorsal. 



This genus is at once distinguished from all others of the family by the 

 elongation and comparative proportions of the dorsal and anal fins. The pe- 

 culiarity of the dorsal and anal fins recalls to mind the nearly similar char- 

 acter found in some of the Balistoidae, a coincidence which is the more notice- 

 able as the Mormyroids have also the upper maxillary bones united like the 

 Plectognathi. 



ISICHTHYS HENRYI Gill. 



The greatest height equals a tenth (10) of the length (exclusive of the caudal 

 fin), and that at the ventrals an eleventh (-09) of the same; the latter is nearly 

 two times and a half as great as the height behind the vertical fins ('OSi). 

 The head 1othe margin of the operculum forms almost a seventh (14) of the 

 length, and is twice as great as the height, or two times and a half as great as 

 that of the eye (-05^). The eye is contained about ten times in the head's 

 length. The interorbital area rather exceeds a fifth (-03) of the same length, 

 while the length of the snout equals a fourth ('03^). 



The dorsal fin commences considerably before the end of the anterior half 

 of the length (-45), and its own length equals half of the total (•50). The 

 greatest height equals that at the pupil (-05^); its posterior portion appears to 

 have been lower. The anal fin commences nearly even with the second half 

 of the length (51) or under the seventh or eighth dorsal ray, and is cotermi- 

 nal with the latter fin ; its height at the middle exceeds that of the dorsal 

 (06^) and at its produced and rounded posterior angle is still greater (-08). 

 The pectoral fin equals an eleventh of the length (-09) ; the ventrals are in- 

 serted near the end of the third tenth of the length (-38) and each one 

 equals two-thirds of the pectoral (•06). 



The scales are small, there being about 135 along the lateral line ; the 38th 

 to 41st is on the vertical from the ventral fin ; the 50th to 53d from the origin of 

 the dorsal, and the 64th to 67th from the anal. At the vertical of the origin 

 of the dorsal fin, there are twenty-six rows of scales, of which ten are above the 

 lateral line, and at that of the anal, twenty-one rows, of which nine are 

 above. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 445 



D.I. 43. A. I. 41., P. 9. V. 5. 



The color is dark reddish or chocolate brown. 



A single specimen, for which there is no indication of locality, is in the 

 Smithsonian Institution, and formed part of the collection of the former Na- 

 tional Institute of the city of Washington. It is in rather poor condition, 

 the caudal fin having been entirely lost. The length of the remaining portion 

 is seven inches. I am disposed to believe that it was sent from Liberia. 



I dedicate the species to my friend Prof. Henry, of the Smithsonian Insti- 

 tution, to whom I have been so much indebted for the privileges of studying 

 the rich collections of the Institution, and especially of investigating the class 

 to which the present species belongs. 



On the Synonymy and Systematic Position of the Genus ETELIS of 

 Cuvier and Valenciennes. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



In the second volume of the " Histoire Naturelle des Poissons," Cuvier and 

 Valenciennes have distributed among two primary sections those species of 

 their family of Percoids, which have ventral fins with five rays and inserted 

 beneath the pectoral, and which have seven branchiostegal rays. Those sec- 

 tions are distinguished by the condition of the dorsal fin ; the first having two 

 ■ dorsals, or a dorsal emarginated to its base ; the second having a single dorsal. 



In the section distinguished by the division of the dorsal fin, and in that 

 subsection whose representatives have canine teeth mingled with others, 

 Cuvier and Valenciennes have placed a generic type which they have techni- 

 cally characterized by the scarcely apparent dentelure of the preoperculum, 

 the single opercular point, and the contiguous dorsals, and which was dis- 

 tinguished from Lucloperca (recte Stizostedion, Rat.) by the wholly villiform 

 teeth of the palate, and the presence of two* opercular spines. The Etelis 

 is, however, not at all related to Stizostedion, but, as will be hereafter shown, 

 belongs to a difi'erent family. It is a fish distinguished by its slender and 

 elegant symmetrical form, the deeply-forked caudal, whose lobes are elongated, 

 and acute, and especially by the remarkably large size of the eyes. The first 

 dorsal of this fish is stated by Cuvier and Valenciennes to terminate at the 

 base of the second. Only one species has been referred to the genus. That 

 species is the Etelis carhtmculvs, of Cuvier and Valenciennes, and has been 

 found in the archipelago of the Seychelles and at the Isle of France. 



In the second section of the same division of Percoids, characterized by the 

 single dorsal fin, and in the subsection distinguished by the possession of 

 canine teeth, Cuvier and Valenciennes have placed the genus Serranus. To 

 that group of the genus for which they have accepted Bloch's name Anthias, 

 they have referred a species which they have named Serranus oculatus, and 

 which is distinguished from all others of that section by the comparatively 

 slight connection between the spinous and soft portions of the dorsal. This 

 fish is likewise remarkable for its slender symmetrical shape, a deeply-forked 

 caudal fin with prolonged and acute lobes, and also especially for its very large 

 eyes. Of the dorsal fins it is simply said that the spines diminish in length 

 from the third to the tenth, which is the last and the lowest. 



On a comparison of the two fishes thus enumerated, it is found that they 

 agree iu all respects. The Etelis carhunculus and the Serrciniis oculatus have 

 the same form of the head and body, the same form and structure of the fins, 

 the same armature of the bones of the head, and the same large eyes, and 

 the same dentition. There is no generic distinction between them whatever, 



* Etelis has two opercular spines and not one as previously stated. 



1862.J 31 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and their reference to two genera belonging to different sections is simply the 

 result of a difference of interpretation of the same fact in the t\vo cases, on 

 account of their examination from isolated points of view. The dorsal has 

 such a form that in one case it appeared to the learned French naturalists to 

 be double, and in the other to be rather a single one. On the most casual ex- 

 amination of the plates of the Etelis carbunculus (pi. xviii.), and the Serranus 

 oculatus (pi. xxxii.), it is evident that there is the closest external resem- 

 blance, which applies to the form of the dorsal fin as well as to every other 

 feature of the external organization. 



Deceived by the imposing authority of the great ichthyologists by whom 

 the two species referred to were described, and by Dr. Glinther's acceptance of 

 the same opinion, after an examination of specimens of each, I had sup- 

 posed that some generic difference must exist between those two species, 

 which had not been rendered sufficiently clear by the authors. I had long 

 noticed the great resemblance of the two species, but was willing to believe 

 that they might belong to distinct genera as the squamation of Etelis was so 

 represented as to remind one of a Holocentroid fish. I had only casually seen 

 the Serrainis oculatus in the infancy of my ichthyological studies, and the 

 remembrance was not sufficiently vivid to enable me to certainly identify 

 that species generically with the Etelis carbunculus. The recent reception at 

 the Smithsonian Institution of a fine specimen from my esteemed correspon- 

 dent, Prof. Poey, at once assured a certainty of the close affinity of the two 

 species so often named. 



My attention was further at once arrested by characteristics which previous 

 observers had failed to express, and which rendered it certain that instead of 

 being a Serranus, or even an Anthias, it was rather related to the Lutjanince, 

 and especially to the genus Platijinius, and that it consequently belonged to a 

 different family. 



The learned Troschel, in a most valuable and suggestive article in the 

 " Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte,* has first pointed out the true characters which 

 distinguish the family of Sparoids as a natural group. Although I shall have 

 occasion to dissent from the views of that naturalist respecting the limits of 

 the family, eliminating some of the forms that have been referred to it, while 

 I would combine others that have been distributed among different ones, it is 

 with much pleasure that I add that the latter modifications are the conse- 

 quence of, and naturally flow from the results of the investigations of Troschel, 

 if we assign less value than he did to the dentition, and that the former are 

 caused by the different views that have originated respecting the character of 

 families since the period at which that ichthyologist wrote. 



Etelis then is proclaimed to be a Sparoid on account of the reception of the 

 maxillary bones beneath the preorbital bones, the existence of a dorsal groove 

 in which the fin is folded, the presence of pointed axillar scales, and the 

 acutely pointed pectoral and caudal fins.f By all these characters it is dis- 

 tinguished from Serranus and Anthias as well as the other Percoids. On ac- 

 count of all these characters it equally agrees with the family of Sparoids, and 

 to that family it consequently must be referred. The artificial nature of that 

 classification, which would place the Lutjaninse in a distinct family from Den- 

 tex, and the allied genera, or which would equally separate the Lutjaninff 

 and the Hoplopagrinse, and which at the same time would refer Lutjaninse to 

 the vicinity of Serraninse on account of the presence of palatine teeth, is too 

 evident to be commented upon, especially after I shall have added that there 



*Dr. F. H. Troschel " Ueber die Begrenzung der Familie der Sparoiden," in Archiv fur 

 Naturgeschichte, 15er Jahrgang. ler band, pp. 382 — 386, taf. viii. 



t The scales are more like those of !?i!lago than any others represented by Troschel, 

 but the concentric stria; in front of the nucleus are obsolete, and consequently have more 

 of a Sparoid ciiaracter. 



[Sept. 




NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHFLADELPHIA. 447 



is one genus (Prionodes, Jenyns) which appears to resemble in almost every 

 respect the Serrani, notwithstanding its total destitution of palatal teeth. 

 I now proceed to give the synonomy and description of the genus Etelis. 



Genus ETELIS Cut. et Yal. 



Etelis Cuv. et Val., Histoire Naturelle des Poissons, tome ii. p. 127, 1828. 

 Elastoma Swaimon, Natural History of Fishes, Reptiles, and Amphibians, vol. 



ii., pp. 168, 202, 1839. 

 Hesperantbias Lowe, Fishes of Maderia, 1843. 

 Macrops Dum^ril, Ichthyologie Analytique, p. 279, 1856. 

 Serranus {Anthias) sp. Cuo. et Val., Temm. et Schlegel, Rich., Poet/. 

 Centropristes sp. JfuU. et Troschel. 

 Anthias sp. Giinther. 



Body moderately compressed, slender, elongated and subfusiform, highest 

 at the ventral fins ; thence regularly attenuated to the caudal peduncle, 

 which is slender and slightly constricted. Back in front of dorsal fin broaJ 

 and flattened towards the occiput. 



6 



Scales rather large, (circa 50 — ) disposed in regular longitudinal rows, 



14 

 parallel with the lateral line. Each scale is about as high as wide, angulateJ 

 behind, with the nucleus at the terminal third, before which the surface is 

 polished, while there is a marginal muricated band. The radiating grooves 

 are few (7-10), and the concentric striae form very acute angle with the lateral 

 edges, and are almost parallel with them. 



Lateral line parallel with the dorsal outline, the sigmoidal curve being very 

 slight. 



Head compressed, oblong-conoid, flattened between the orbits, and with the 

 snout gradually decurved to the symphisis. Forehead naked. Opercular 

 bones and cheeks and covered with moderate scales. Preoperculum with a 

 rather narrow naked limb, vertical behind, and very finely serrated. Oper- 

 culum behind terminated by two acute spines separated by an oblique emar- 

 gination. Preorbital bones naked, low and oblong or elongated. 



Eyes very large and circular. 



Nostrils on each side, double, approximated, with nearly simple margins. 



Mouth rather large, with the cleft moderately oblique. Intermaxillary 

 bones with short, posterior processes and little protractile. Supramaxillary 

 bones terminating nearly under the centre of the pupil, covered on their ex- 

 posed portions with scales. Dentary low and bent inwards beneath. 



Teeth in a villiform band on each jaw, with a row of much larger distant 

 ones in the upper jaw, and with a canine one each side in front: in the lower 

 also, an external rim of rather larger ones, and with a small canine on each 

 side in front, closing before the one in the upper jaw, and with a larger one 

 farther backwards. Teeth of the vomer and palatine bones in a villiform 

 band ; that of the former angulated at the middle; 



Branchiostegal rays seven. 



Dorsal fin with the spinous portion with ten spines rapidly decreasing from 

 the third, and with the first abbreviated ; soft portion oblong, and nearl}- uni- 

 form in height, much lower than the highest spines, and much higher than 

 the tenth or last one. Dorsal groove very conspicuous. 



Anal fin smaller than the soft portion of the dorsal to which it is symmet- 

 rically opposed, with three moderate graduated spines, and with eight rays, 

 the last of which are slightly prolonged. 



Caudal fin deeply-forked, and with acute lobes, the upper of which is 

 longest ; the outer and basal portions of each lobe are scaly. 



Pectoral fins moderate, acutely prolonged from the upperward rays. 



1862.] 




448 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Ventral fins beneath the pectoral, acutely angulated and with small pointed 

 axillar scales. 



This genus is decidedly more nearly allied to Platyinius* than to Ocyurus,f 

 though the form of the body is perhaps more like that of the latter. It agrees 

 with Platyinius in the general form of the head, in dentition, and in the arma- 

 ture of the opercular bones, but is distinguished from it by the slender form, 

 the larger scales, the rapid decrease backwards of the dorsal spines, and in a 

 minute degree by the rather larger eyes and mouth as well as the scaly 

 supraraaxillars. 



Having demonstrated that there is no generic difference between Etelis car- 

 buncuJus and Serramis oculaius, it follows that any name subsequently framed 

 for the latter under the belief that it was the representative of a peculiar 

 species must be suppressed. 



Eleven years after the two species were fir^t made known, William Swain- 

 gon published the Natural History of Fishes, Amphibians and Reptiles or Mo- 

 nocardian animals," for the arrangement of which, a series of fantastic ideas 

 was taken as the guiding principles of classification. Among the numerous 

 genera or " subgenera" proposed by this author were one named Elastoma, 

 based on the Serranus oculaius, and another called Uriphzeton for which the 

 Serranus placton of Cuvier and Valenciennes was taken as the type. Swainson 

 in the " Synopsis of the natural arrangement of Fishes," regarded Etelis as 

 one of the genera forming the cabalistic number of the second subfamily 

 (Serrnninje) of Percoids, and by a happy accident approximated Elastoma 

 and Etelis to which Uriphfeton was added as a third subgenus. But he who 

 might be seldom right, did not retain this fortunate juxtaposition of the first 

 two types, but in the "general arrangement" interposed Uriphfeton between 

 Elastoma and Etelis, comparing the latter with Uriphaston and denying any 

 palatal teeth to this representative of a family chiefly distinguished by the 

 presence of teeth on the " vomer and palate." Swainson did not find this 

 negation in the only work from which he could have derived his knowledge 

 of this genus, and as in so many other cases, this error was the result of 

 gimple carelessness. 



Some time afterwards, Mr. Lowe, an author as fortunate in his combinations 

 as Mr. Swainson was unfortunate, proposed for the Serranus oculatus the new 

 generic name Hesperanthias. 



Still more recently, the elder Dumeril, in his compilation of Ichthyology 

 added still another synonym, giving to tlie same genus the name of Macrops. 



Finallv Dr. Giinther, although acquainted with both the Etelis carbunculus 

 and Serranus oculatus, did not perceive their affinity and preserved the respec- 

 tive places assigned to them by their early describers. 



Etelis carbunculus Cuv. et Val. 

 Ftelis carbunculus Cuv. et FaZ., Histoire Naturelle des Poissons,tome ii. p. 127, 

 pi. 18. 



* Some time after the above article was completed, I had the pleasure to find that M 

 Poey, by independent observaiions, had also perceived the close affinity of Elastoma, 

 (Etelis) and Platyinius. In a letter which probably reached me at about the same time or 

 litde after one announcing my own results, was received by Poey, that gentleman 

 writes as follows: "En mettani de I'ordre mes squelettes des poissons.je me suis apper- 

 CQ quele crane de mes voraa: (gen. Platyinius, G\\\)^eA identiqueavec celui de V Elastoma 

 nculatiirn ■ tout-ri-fait plat entre les deux yeux, et le bord orbitaire superieur fortement 

 strie en travers, &c." The other features shared in common, have also been noticed — 

 "les niemes dents (canines petites, &c.,) prepercule dentele, qnoique plus fortement 

 dans le vorax, une opine plate a I'opercule, corps elance (moins dans le vorax) lobe supc 

 ricure caudal' plus allongC (moins dans le vorax). D. X. II. A, Ilf. 8, dernier rayon,- 

 des nageoires verticales medianes prolonge, couleur gcnerale rouge, I'oeil grand, &c." 



Platvinius Gill, Proc. Acad. N. S., Philad. Type Mesopnon vorax Poey. 



t OcyuruB Gill, Proc. Acad. N. S. Philad. Type Mesoprion chrysurus C. V. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 449 



Etelis carbunculus Giinther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterjgiaa Fishes, &c., 

 vol. i. p. 79. 



6 

 D. X. 11. A. III. 8. Scales 50—* (Giinther.) 



14 

 The color is a brilliant red in life, with shining golden lines along each row 

 of scales. 

 Habitat. — Seychelles and Isle of France (Cut. et Yal., Giinther). 



Etelis oculatus Gill ex Cuv. et Val. 

 Serranus oculatus Cuv. et Val. Histoire Naturelle des Poissons, tome ii. p. 



266, pi 32. Ramon de la Sagra. 

 Hesperanthias oculatus, Lowe. 

 Centropristis oculatus MuHer and Troschel. 



ilacrops (aculeatus) Dumeril Ichthyologie Analvtique, p. 279. 

 Anthias oculatus Giinther. Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c. 

 vol. ii. p. 92. 



6 

 D. X. 11. A. III. 8. Scales 50-51— 



14 

 Upper half of body rose, lower half straw yellow. 

 Habitat. — Caribbean sea. 



To this species Messrs. Lowef and Giinther have referred a representative 

 of this genus found at Maderia, and Tetnminck and SohlegelJ another discov- 

 ered at Japan. I do not think that it is at all certain that those specimens 

 belong to the present species, and cannot, therefore decisively refer them to 

 the synonymy. 



Etelis coruscans, Val.§ 

 Etelis coruscans Val, Comptes Rendus, tome liv. p. 116G, June 9, 1862. 



Body longer, head shorter, teeth smaller, dorsal spines shorter and caudal 

 longer than in E. carbunculus. 

 Habitat. — Isle of Bourbon. 



After an interval of a third of a century, Valenciennes, again returning to 

 the genus Etelis, has added a supposed new species, only distinguished from 

 the E. carbunculus by the comparative characters here cited. He has failed 

 to recognize the affinity of E. oculatus. 



Description of a new Genus and Species of FHOLADID.S:. 



BY GEO. W. TRYOX, JR. 



Subfamily JOUANXETIX.E, Tryon, 1862. 



DiPLOTHTRA, Tyron. 



Shell with a double accessory valve ; the principal plate placed directly over 



the umbooes, with a smaller anterior one adjoining. 



This genus is allied to ilartesia ; but differs in the double or divided dorsal 

 valve. 



* Cuvier and Valenciennes assign ahout sixty scales to the lateral line and seventeen 

 or eighteen rows to the insertion of the ventrals. The ibrmer number includes the small 

 caudal scales. 



t Hesperanthias oculatus Lowe. Fishes of Maderia. This work is at present inacces- 

 sible to me. 



t Serranus oculatus Temm. et Schl. Fauna Japonica, Pisces, p. 5. 



gThe Comptes Rendus containing the diagnosis of £• coruscans was received after the 

 transmissioc of the above article to the Academy. 



18b2.] 




450 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



D. S ra i t h i i , Tryon. 



Testa brevi, ovata, in medio oblique divisa, antic^ acutii striata, ' 

 postice paulo striata vel Iffivigata; lamina umbonali ovata, postic^ 

 subtrnncata, anticfe rotundata, lamind anteriori parva, antice sub- 

 acuminata. 



Shell short, ovate, divided in the middle by an oblique impressed 

 line, posterior to which the surface is covered with growth lines 

 only, but anteriorly it is finely and sharply transversely sculptured, 

 and obsoletely radiately ribbed in some specimens. 



The umbonal plates are generally much distorted, so that no particular form 

 can be traced throughout all the specimens, though the more perfect approach 

 to that depicted in the magnified figure above. 



Length -6; height and breadth -4 inch. 



Collections of Acad. Nat. Sci., Smithsonian Institution, Sanderson Smith, 

 New York ; Hugh Gumming, London ; Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Hahitat. — Tottenville, Staten Island, burrowing in oyster shells. 



Mr. Smith, to whom I am indebted for the opportunity of examining numer- 

 ous individuals of this curious species, gives the following interesting infor- 

 mation in relation to them : 



•' The shells were all dead, and I have found as yet no positive evidence of 

 the oysters being imported ones, although from the great number of southern 

 oysters planted in Prince's Bay and the neighborhood, there is a considerable 

 probability of tbi.". The large number of oyster shells which have been 

 bored from the inside, and consequently after the death of the oyster, suffices 

 to show that the shell is now, or very recently has been living here, as it is 

 hardly likely that so many large dead shells would have been accidentally 

 brought with the living ones. I have hitherto found them only in one lot of 

 thirtj' or forty loads of shells, of which I cannot ascertain the exact source. 

 They are by no means scarce, and several hundred specimens must have been 

 obtained by myself and others." 



From the condition of the dried animal matter contained in some of the spe- 

 cimens, I quite agree with Mr. Smith's conjecture that the species is probably 

 still living at the locality mentioned. In many cases where this species has 

 bored from the outside of the oyster shell, penetrating entirely through its or- 

 dinary surface, the oyster has protected itself from contact by depositing a 

 layer of nacre between itself and the exposed portion of the intruder. 



Dactylina (Gitocentrcm) Chiloensis, King. 



To the synonymy of this species must be added Photos ^Dactylina) reiifer. 

 Morch. Mai. Bliitt. vii. p. 177, Dec. 1860. 



Dtscription. — T. elongato-cylindracea fere clausa, antice rotundato subpro- 

 ducta, postice elongata planata laeviuscula ; costae 25 parum prominentes lon- 

 gitudinalibus validioribus decussatae, intersectionibus squamiferis ; cost£e sub- 

 jequales, quarta antica parvula; interstitia costarum lirulis planis 4-5 ; costae 

 antica; et lirulae intermediae validiore^ fascie interna excavata; ; lamina dor- 

 ealis reflexa unde late umbiliiata ; cellulae dorsales ad num. 12 injequales. 



Long 104, alt. 3.3 mill. Rcalejo, valva solitaria dextra fractra." 



The intermediate flat ribs or lirula? mentioned above and considered by 

 Alurch to be a distirctive character, are very apparent at the anterior end of 

 most perfect and fresh valves of C h i 1 o e n s i s, and they are frequently marked 

 internally hy corresponding sulcas; as the shell grows to maturity these riblets 

 become obsolete, or are replaced by a single intermediate squamiferus small 

 rib. 



There is no regularity in the number of radiating costas on the surface, though 

 they do generally average twenty-five in number; but in some valves they be- 

 come evanescent posteriorly sooner than in others. The dorsal cellules num- 

 ber in different specimens before me from 12 to 15. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



It •will be seen that MiJrcb describes his species from a single valve, and ia 

 the course of his remarks upon its distinctive characters, he refers to the 

 figures ofChiloensisin Philippi Abbild. The examination of a few spe- 

 cimens would have satisfied him of the entire identity of his shell with 

 Chiloensis. 



Notes OQ American Fresh Water SHELLS, with, descriptions of two 

 new Species. 



BY GEO. W. TYRON, JR. 



VIVIPARIDJE, H. & A. Adams. 

 ViviPARA, Montfort, 1810. 

 The following sub-genera of Vivipara inhabit the United States : 

 TcLOTOMA. Haldeman. Shell heavy and nodulous, opercle corneous and con- 

 centric : animal with the habit of Anculosa. 



Example. Y. magnifica, Conrad. 

 V. bimonilifera, Lea. 



Melaktho, Bowdich, 1822. Shell oval, solid, sub-umbilicate or entirely covered. 

 Whorls smooth, aperture oval. Color uniform. 



Examples. V. ponderosa, decisa, etc. 



Haldemania, Tryon, 1862. Shell subcarinate. operculum with a paucispiral 

 nucleus, the accretions becoming concentric with age. 



Example. T. subcarinata, Say. 



There are several species of typical Tiviparaj inhabiting our Western waters, 

 all of which are entirely distinct from European species. 



V. line at a , Yalenc. (sp.) 



Paludina lineata. Valenciennes. Rec. d'Obs. de Zool. par Humboldt et 

 Boupland. ii, p. 255, 1833. — Kiister, Martini and Chemn. Conch. Cab. 

 Monog. of Paludina, p. 10, 19, t. 2, f. 6—9 ; t. 4, f. 4. 1852. 

 " vivipara. Say, in Nicholson's Encyc. 3d. (American) Edit. t. 2, f. 5, 1819. 

 Haldeman, Monog. p. 17, t. 6. 



This shell differs from the vivipara of Europe in possessing four spiral 

 red bands, whilst the latter has but three. An examination of hundreds of 

 specimens from various portions of the Western States, and from Europe haa 

 convinced me that the difference is permanent. 



V. intertexta, Say. 



This shell has occasionally, distinct red revolving bands, four in number. 

 I have a number of specimens from Davenport, Iowa, (Prof. Sheldon) ; and Mr. 

 Binney has one from Rock River, Illinois : they difier from the New Orleans 

 specimens in the umbilicus being more open. 

 V. 8ubpurpurea,Say. 



V. Texa n a , Tryon. 



T. solida, conica, pallide virente ; spira elongata, sutura valde 

 impressa, apice obtusa ; anfractibus senis, paulo-convexis, 

 aperturd suborbiculata, parva, 2 — 5 totius altitudinis a?quante. 



Length 1^ inch, breadth s inch. First five whorls of the spire 

 equal in length to the aperture. 



//i6.— Texas. 



Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Coll. G. W. Tryon. Jr. 



Shell solid, narrowly conic, consisting of six whorls, which 

 are somewhat flattened around their upper portion ; sutures well 

 impressed. Aperture suborbicular, equalling 2-5th3 of the length 



1862.] 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



of the shell. Umhilicus covered. Epidermis light green with faint red revolv- 

 ing bands. 



This shell most resembles V. subpurpurea, but is easily distinguished 

 by having six whorls, which are much narrower than in that species. The 

 spire is almost double the length of that of subpurpurea, and <he epider- 

 mis is lighter in color. 



V. subsolida, Anthony. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 71, 1860. 



Through the kindness of Prof. D. S. Sheldon, of Davenport, Iowa, I have 

 received a number of specimens of this shell and ofV. Integra, Say, from 

 the Mississippi River at that place. The latter reaches the size of s u b s o 1 i d a, 

 which it much resembles, but it is easy to separate them by the following dis- 

 tinctive characters : 

 V, subsolida. 



Spire longer than the aperture, consisting of seven whorls, acuminate. 

 Body whorl subangulated near the middle, the angle being quite conspicu- 

 ous in half-grown shells. 

 V. Integra, 



Spire shorter than the aperture, consisting oi six or occasionally six and a 

 half whorls. Body scarcely angulated, being almost regularly convex. 

 Shell much more ventricose than subsolida. 



V. ponderosa, Say, 



May be readily distinguished from V. Integra by its shorter spire, much 

 more ventricose form^ and by the body whorl being almost flat in the centre, 

 so that its lateral sides for some distance are almost parallel. The shoulder 

 of the wLorls is also more prominent than in either of the other specimens. 



AMNICOLIDJE, Tryon, 1862. 



AMNICOLA, Gould and Haldeman. 



There are two very distinct groups of shells included by authors in this 

 genus ; in the first, which may be considered typical, the shells are globose, 

 with a short spire of three or four whorls ; the second I propose to separate as 

 a subgenus, which may be thus characterized : 



Subgenus Pomatiopsis, Tryon, 1862. 



Shell elongate, the spire (of about six whorls) much exceeding the length 

 of the aperture. 



Example. A.lapidaria, Say. 



A. depressa, Tryon. 



T. orbiculalii, snbhyallna ; anfractibus quarternis, convexis ; 

 ultimo niagno, 5 — 6 totius longltudlnis ajquante, anguste umbilicata. 

 T ( yf^ AperturCi semi-clrcularl ; labio interne appresso. Sutura impressa. 

 1 \ u// > Long. 4 mill. Lat. 4 mill. 



(Figure magnified 22 times.) 



Ilah. — Mississippi River at Davenport, Iowa. Prof, .^heldon. 

 Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci., Smiihsonlan Inst., and of Prof. D. S. Sheldon, Isaac 

 Lea, J. G. Anthony, and Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Shell subhyaline, rather solid, orbicular ; spire depressed, consisting of near- 

 ly four whorls; apex acute, suture profoundly Impressed. Body whorl very 

 convex, equalling 5-6ths the total length of the shell, narrowly umbilicate. 

 Aperture semi-circular, the Inner lip being nearly straight. 



The only shell which this resembles is V. subglobosa, Say, which is, 

 however, double the size of A. depressa, with a rather more exserted spire, 

 and more concave inner lip. 



[Sept, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 453 



Monograph of the Family TEREDID^. 

 BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 



The following is the third and concluding paper of a series * designed to 

 comprehend all that is at present known, regarding the curious group of shells 

 included in Blainville's Order Pholadacea : — 



In the preparation of these papers much difBculty has arisen from the num- 

 ber of species which have been described (sometimes inadequately) but not 

 figured, and from the conflicting views of European naturalists regarding the 

 validity of many species. There is no good reason why the Pholadaceac should 

 not be searched for, and distributed very generally in public and private cabi- 

 nets, yet such is not the case, and every conchologist who studies the order 

 labors under the disadvantage of being unable to examine and compare speci- 

 mens, of a large number of the species. Greatly as the number of species have 

 been increased by modern research, it is evident, from the general diffusion of 

 the order throughout the world, and from the incompleteness of our researches 

 in those regions, which appear most to abound in them, and also from the 

 number of new species in one of the families discovered recently in England 

 alone, that the number at present known must be indeed a very small propor- 

 tion of those which future investigations will probably reveal to us. 



If these pages shall direct attention to the collection and study of the Phola- 

 daceffi, and furnish an approximate idea of the amount of the previous labors 

 of conchologists, they will have answered their purpose. Should materiel be 

 placed at my disposal for a more perfect study of these shells, a complete illus- 

 trated monograph will be published at some future time. To further this end, 

 collectors are earnestly requested to send to me (in exchange), specimens from 

 all duly authenticated localities, together with such facts in relation to them as 

 may come to their knowledge, and such assistance will be fitly acknowledged 

 in the proposed publication. 



Sellius was the first naturalist who studied the species of Teredo, and his 

 work on their natural history is a model of accuracy in most particulars, going 

 far in advance of all other treatises on the subject which appeared for many 

 years afterwards. 



So little did Linnseus and his immediate followers know of the species of 

 Teredo, that they included a number of species under the name of T. navalis, 

 which is published with such a general description as will suit all the species 

 now known, or hereafter to be added to the genus ! Lamarck did not add much 

 to our knowledge of these shells, and Dr. Gray has merely given us at two 

 widely-extended periods, lists of the species, one or two descriptions, and some 

 interesting and important investigations regarding the shell of Kuphus arenariiis. 

 Concbology is deeply indebted to the following naturalists for a large portion 

 of our knowledge of the femily : Blaiaville, who published a number of new 

 species in the " Diet, des Sciences Naturelles." Deshayes, who has given us 

 extended anatomical descriptions in the MoUusca of the Scientific Exploration 

 of Algiers. Fischer, a Monograph of the family in " Journ. Couch., 2 ser., 

 vol. i." Turton, for several new species. And more especially to Mr. Gwyn 

 Jefi'reys for his accurate diagnoses of new British species, and to Mr. Hanley 

 for the splendid descriptions which he has published, in the " History of British 

 MoUusca." 



I have endeavored, as far as possible, in the present paper to separate the 

 species by distinctive characters, but their value is seriously impaired in this 

 family by the fact that, unlike the Pholadidae, the specific distinctions are not 



* " Synopsis of the Recent Species of Gastrochseiiidse, a Family of Acephalous MoUusca." — Proo. 

 Acad. Nat. Sc, Dec, 1861. 



"On the Classification and Synonjrmy of the Recent Species of Pholadidae." — Proc. Acad. Xat. 

 Sc, April, 1862. 



1862.] 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



always founded on the shell, but sometimes, where the shells of two species are 

 undistinguishable from each other, their tulaes or pallets may afford considera- 

 ble differences. The pallets alone as will be seen indicate two distinct genera, 

 where the valves do not differ. Hence it is necessary, in many cases, for a 

 certain determination of the species, that the valves, tube, and pallets shall 

 each be examined, and it is needless to expatiate on the confusion which would 

 arise from the accidental commingling of the tubes or pallets of one species 

 with the valves of another; and this confusion is more apt to occur when, as 

 is not unfrequently the case, several species are found inhabiting the same 

 piece of wood, and being broken in their extraction, the pallets and valves fall 

 out indiscriminately intermingled. 



Another difficulty in the study of the Teredidse is the great variation of the 

 individuals in size, proportions, and markings, making an accurate diagnosis a 

 simple impossibility, and compelling us to rely on a general accordance with de- 

 scriptions in the most material points. Mr. Hanley remarks that "there is one 

 fact with regard to the shipworms, which has rendered their investigation 

 peculiarly laborious, namely, that no reliance can be placed upon the relative 

 proportions of their several parts for specific defiilition. If we take at random 

 about fifty valves of Norvagica, for instance, we shall find that in some the 

 oblique decussated striae occupy twice the space of the succeeding strip, in 

 others this is reversed, in many these are both contracted, and a large pos- 

 terior smooth area is exhibited ; in others again almost the entire surface is 

 occupied by the two former, to the great diminution of the hinder portion. 

 Hence it is absolutely necessary to examine very numerous examples in order 

 to elicit the real and permanent specific characters, and the valves alone are 

 rarely adequate for the determination of the species." 



Dr. Gray proposed, in 1851, to consider the Teredines a subfamily of Phola- 

 DiD^, but Mr. P. P. Carpenter has separated them under the name of Tere- 

 uiDM, with great propriety, as they undoubtedly exhibit sufficient diflferences 

 from the Pholades, and from all other MoUusca, to be entitled to the position of 

 a family. 



I have already given (in Proc. A. N. S., April, 1862) a sketch of the division 

 of TEREDiDiE into three subfamilies, which it will be necessary to reproduce 

 here : — 



Family TEREBIDJE. 



Animal elongate, subcylindrical, siphons united nearly to the end, their ex- 

 tremities armed with two shelly styles ; (Pallets.) foot long and narrow, protruded 

 through the united mantle lobes, which are thickened in front. Gills long; 

 mouth with palpi. Shell, when present, globular, tripartite, included with the 

 animal in a more or less cylindrical testaceous tube, the siphonal end of which 

 is divided into two by a longitudinal partition. 



Subfamily 1. Teredin^. Valves present, free, contained in the tube, which 

 is irregularly cylindrical, sometimes much contorted. Perforating timber. 



Subfamily 2. Teredixin^e. Valves with an accessory anterior dorsal plate, 

 their margins prolonged into a shelly tube when adult.* Tube frequently con- 

 camerated ; siphonal extremity often truncate, and the opening contracted by 

 a six-lobed internal margin (fossil). 



* Dr. Gray supposes the fossil genus Teredina to be more closely connected with Pholadh)^ than 

 with Terewd,!, from the fact that the shell has an accessory dorsal plate, and is external to the 

 tube. It must be confessed that the genus is curiously related to all three families : the external 

 position of the valves, and the lobed end of the tube, exhiliiting an approach to the G.istroch^- 

 NID/E. I have concluded to place it for the present in TEREDiD.B.iua position where it may indicate 

 a transition from the free and perfect valves of Teredo, through its less important valves event- 

 ually becoming merely a portion of the tube, to the Kcphus, where the valves are entirely want- 

 ing, or arc replaced by the cleft shelly plate which closes the lower end. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



Subfamily 3. Kuphin^. Without valves. Tube clavately cjlindrical, sunk 

 horizontally in sand. Never penetrating timber. 



/Sj/noj)sis of Genera. 



Subfamily TEREDIN^. 



Tabes elongate, nearly cylindrical, increasing slowly in 

 diameter, solitary ; pallets simple ; valves generally nearly 

 as broad as their length Genus Teredo, Linn. 



Tubes club-shaped, much contorted, growing together 

 in masses, and increasing rapidly in diameter; pallets 

 simple; valves narrow and elongate Genus Uperotis, Guettard. 



Tubes elongate, increasing slowly in diameter, solitary; 

 pallets compound, the blade penniform, composed of a 

 number of jointed setae ; vabes nearly as broad as their 

 length Genus Xylotrya, Leach. 



Subfamily TEREDINID^. 

 (Fossil.) 



Subfamily KUPHIN^. 



Tubes penetrating sand, somewhat irregular, very large, 

 "pierced around the base with small scattered perforations ; 

 and inclosed by two overlapping convex septa, arising from 

 the sides and completely closing the ends" (Gray). ...Genus Kuphcs, Guettard. 



Index to Species of TEKEDiD.ffi. 



liruma delle Navi, Vallisnieri, = Teredo Norvagica, Spengler. 



deir Oceana, Vallisnieri, = Teredo megotara, Hanley. 

 Cuphus arenarius. Gray, = Kuphus arenarius, Linn. 

 Dentaliiim navis, Linn. = Teredo navalis, Linn. 

 Fistulana corniformis, Lam. =^ Teredo Norvagica, Spengler. 

 gregaria, Blainv. = Uperotis clava, Gmelin. 

 gregaia, Lam. = Uperotis clava, Gmelin. 

 Furcella gigantea, Gray, = Kuphus arenarius, Linn. 

 Guetera clava, Gray, = Uperotis clava, Gmel. 



corniformis, Gray, = Teredo Norvagica, Spengler. 

 Kuphus arenarius, Linn. 



Leptana arenaria. Gray, = Kuphus arenarius, Linn. 

 Pholas Teredo, Miill. = Teredo nana, Turton. 

 Septaria arenaria, Lara. = Kuphus arenarius, Linn. 

 gigantea, Chenu, = Kuphus arenarius, Linn. 

 Mediterranea, Matheron, =: Teredo Norvagica, Spengler. 

 Serpula anguina, b. Gmelin, ;= Kuphus arenarius, Linn. 

 gigantea, Schroter, = Kuphus arenarius, Linn. 

 polythalamia, Linn. = Kuphus arenarius, Linn. 

 retorta, Mawe, = Uperotis clava, Gmelin. 

 Teredo, Da Costa, = Teredo Norvagica, Spengler. 

 Solen arenarius, Rumphius, ^= Kuphus arenarius, Linn. 



corrugatns, Klein, = Kuphus arenarius, Linn. 

 Teredo arenaria. Gray, = Kuphus arenarius, Linn. 

 Teredo Batavus, Spengler, = Teredo navalis, Linn. 

 Teredo bipalmulata, Chiaje, = Xylotrya minima, Blainv. 

 " Lam. ^= Xylotrya palmulata, Lam. 



" Thompson, = Xylotrya fimbriata, Jeffreys, 



bipartita, Jeffreys. 



1862.] 




456 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADExMY OP 



Teredo Briiguierii, Chiaje, = Teredo Norvagica, Spengler. 



campanulata, Desh. = Xylotrya Stutchburyi, Leach. 



carinata, Leach, = Xylotrj'a bipennata, Turton. 



clava, Gmel. =: Uperotis clava, GmeL 



corniformis. Gray, = Teredo Norvagica, Spengler. 



dendculata, Gray, = Teredo nana, Turton, 



Deshaii, Quatref. = Teredo Norvagica, Spengler. 



dilatata, Stimpson. 



divaricata, Desh. 



elongata, Quatref. 



excavata, Lukis. 



faialis, Quatref. = Teredo Norvagica, Spengler. 



fusticulis, Jefifreys. 



gigantea, Home, ^ Kupbus arenarius, Linn. 



(/regata, Desh. = Uperotis clava, Gmel. 



malleolus, Turton. 



marina, Sellius, = Teredo navalis, Linn. 



Jleiliterranea, Catlovv, = Teredo Norvagica, Spengler. 



megotara, Hanley. 



minima, Blainv. =^ Xylotrya minima, Blainville. 



nana, Turton. 



" {part.) Gray, = Teredo megotara, Hanley. 

 navalis, Brit. Authors, =: Teredo Norvagica, Spengler. 



" Home, -= Xylotrya bipennata, Turton. 



" Linn. 



" Moller, ^= Teredo nana, Turton. 



" Spengler, = Xylotrya Stutchburyi, Leach. 

 navium, Sellius, = Teredo Norvagica, Spengler. 

 nigra, Blainv. = Teredo Norvagica, Spengler. 

 Norvagica, Thompson, = Teredo Norvagica, Spengler. 

 Norvagica, Spengler. 



'' var. Jeffreys, = Teredo divaricata, Desh. 



nueivorus, Spengler, = Uperotis clava, Gmel. 

 Oceani, Sellius, = Teredo megotara, Hanley. 

 palmulata, Leach, = Xylotrya pennatifera, Blaiuv. 

 " Lam. =r Xylotrya palmulata, Lam. 



" Philippi, ^ Xylotrya minima, Blainv. 



pedicellata, Quatref. 



pennatifera, Blainv. = Xylotrya pennatifera, Blainv. 

 Petitii, Recluz, = Teredo elongata, Quatref. 

 Philippii, Gray, = Xylotrya minima, Blainv. 

 Senegalensis, Blainv. 



" Fischer, Teredo elongata, Quatref. 



" Laurent, = Teredo Norvagica, Spengler. 



scrratiis, Desh. = Xylotrya minima, Blainv. 

 spatha, Jeffreys. 



Slutchhuryi, Leach, ^ Xylotrya Stutchburyi, Leach. 

 subericola, Macgillivray. 

 thoracites, Gould, 

 truncata, Quatref. 



utricultis, Gmel. = Teredo Norvagica, Spengler. 

 vulgaris, Lam. ^Teredo navalis, Linn. 

 Uperotus clava, Gmel. 



corniformis, Adams, ^= Teredo Norvagica, Spengler. 

 Xylotrya hipalmulata, Lam. = Xylotrya palmulata, Lam. 



bipennata, Turton. 

 ' carinata, Gray, =^ Xylotrya bipennata, Turton. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



Xvlotrj-a fimbriata, Jeffreys. 

 cacuUata, Norman, 

 minima, Blainv. 

 palmulaia, Hanley, = Xylotrya fimbriata, Jeffreys, 



" Lam. 

 pennatifera, Blainv. 



PhUippii, Adams, = Xylotrya minima, Blainv. 

 Stutchburyi, Leach. 



Reference to Authors on Teredidae. 



Adam?, H. & A Genera of Recent Mollusca, ii. 1854-G. 



Adanson Hist. Nat. du Senegal, Coquillages, 1T57. Mem. de 



I'Academie des Sciences, Ixxvi. p. 249, 1759. 



Agassiz Nomenclator Zoologicus, 1842 — 7. 



Anton Versuch der Conchylien, 1839. 



Baster, Job A Dissertation on the worms which destroy the piles on 



the coasts of Holland and Zealand, Philos. Trans., 

 xli. p. 276, 1739. 



Belkmeer Naturkundige, Zee Worm. 



Blainville Diet, des Sciences Naturelles, xvii. p. 82, 1820, Hi. p. 



259, 1828. Manuel de Malacologie, 1827. 



Bosc Hist, des Coquilles, ii. 1801. 



Bronn Syst. urw. Conchylien, 1824. 



Brown, T Conchology of Great Britain, 1844. 



Bruguiere Encyc. Methodique, Mollusks, i. p. 12, 1789. 



Burrows Elements of Conchology, 2d edit. 1825. 



Carpenter, P. P Lectures on Mollusca, 1861. 



Catlow. A Conchologist's Nomenclator, 1845. 



Chenu, J. C Manuel de Conchyliologie, ii. p. 10, 1862. Encyclopedia 



d'Histoire Nat. Mollusqnes. 



Crouch Introduction to Lamarck's Conchology, 1827. 



Cuvier Regne Animal, ed. 1, ii. 1817; ed. 2, iii. 1829; ed. Grif- 

 fith, xii. 1834; ed. Audouin,Mollnsques. 1836; Ann. 

 du Museum, xix. 1812; Anat. Comparit. 1800 : Tabl. 

 Elem., p. 432. 



Da Costa British Conchology, 1778. 



Davilla Cat. Syst., 1767. 



De Kay, J. E Natural History of New York, Mollusca, 1843. 



Delle Chiaje Memoirs, iv. 1836. 



Deshayes Traite Elem., i. pt. 2, 1843 — 50. Lamarck's Anim. sans 



Vert., ed. 2, vi. 1835. Exploration Scientifique de 

 I'Algerie, Mollusques. Ann. des Science? Naturelles, 

 2d ser. xi. Encyclopedic Methodique, Vers. iii. Anno C. 



Dillwyn, L. W Descriptive Catalogue, 1817. 



Donovan British Shells, iv. 1799. 



D'Orbigny Mollusca, Sagra's Cuba, ii. PaL Franc. Terr. Crct. iii. 



Eichwald Fauna Caspio-Caucasica, 1841. 



Fabricius Fauna Grcenlandica, 1780. 



Favanne Conchyliologie, 1780. 



Ferussac Tabl. Syst. 1822. 



Fischer Melanges Conchyliogiques, p. 19. Journ Conchyliol- 

 ogie, 2d ser. 



Fleming British Animals, p. 409, 1828. 



Forbes k Hanley History of British Mollusca, i. 1853. 



Frey et Leuckart Beitr. z. Kenntniss Wirbel, 1847. 



Frisch Mas. Hoffmann ianum. 



1862.] 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Georgi Beschreib des Russ. Reichs. iii. 



Gerville Cat. Coquilles de la Manche, 1825. 



Gmelin Systema Naturae, i. pt. 6, 1790. 



Goldfuss Zool., p. 613. 



Gould, A. A Invertebrata of Massachusetts, 1841, Boston Proc, vi. 



p. 15. Otia Conchologica, p. 222, 241, 18(52. 

 Gray, J. E Annals and Mag. Nat. Hist., 2d ser., viii. p. 380, 1851. 



Monograph of Teredo in Philosophical Magazine, ii. 



p. 409, 1827. Zoological Proceedings, pt. 25, pt. 20. 



Annals and Mag. Nat. Hist., 3d ser. i. ii. Zoological 



Proceedings, 1847. London Medical Repository, \v. 



p. 237. Synopsis Brit. Mus. 1840, 1842. 

 QriflBths, J Desc. of a new species of Worm fchells, &c. Philos. 



Trans., p. 269, 180G. 



Gronovius Zooph., 1781. 



Guerin Iconographie du Reg. Anim. Mollusca, t. 33. 



Gueltard Memoirs, ii. p. 128, iii. p. 139. 



Hanley, S Descriptive-Catalogue, 1842. Shells of Linnteus, 1855. 



Hebenstreit Museum Richterianum, p. 295, 1743. 



Heinrich Medizinische Zeitung Russlands, 1845. 



Home, E Philos. Trans., 1806, p. 276. Lect. Anat. Comparit. ii. 



Humphrey Conchology. 



Jay, J. C Catalogue of Shells, 4th edit., 1850. 



JeflFreys, G Magazine of Natural History, 3d ser., vi. 



Kammerer Cab. Rudolst, 1786. 



Karsten Mus. Leskeanum, i. 1789. 



Klein DeTub., 1731. 



Kurtz, J. D Catalogue of the Mollusca of North and South Caro- 

 lina, 1860. 

 Lamarck Anim. sans. Vert., edit. 1, v. 1818; edit. 2, vi. 1835. 



Syst. Anim. s. ' Yert., p. 129. Phil. Zool., 1809. 



Extra, d'un Cours, 1812. 



Latreille Fam. Nat., 1825. 



Laurent Journ. Conchyl., i. 



Lesser Conch. 



Linnaeus Syst. Nat., edit. 10, 1758. Syst. Nat., ed. 12, 1760. 



Faun. Suec, p. 380, 1746. Mus. Ulric, p. 7oO, 1764. 



Loven Index Moll. Scand., 1846. 



Martini Conchylien Cabinet, i. 1769. 



Massuet Recherches sur les Vers., &c., 1733. 



Matheron Ann. des Sc. du Midi France, i. p. 77, ii. p. 312. 



Maton & Rackett Linn. Trans., viii. List of Brit. Testacea, 1807. 



Mawe Linnsean System of Conchology, 1823. 



Menke Syn. Meth.", 1st ed., p. 73, 1828'; 2d ed., p. 121, 1830. 



Middendorff. Mai. Rossica, pt. iii. 1849. 



Milne-Edwards Conch., p. 203, 1845. 



iloller Index Molluscorum Groenlandiae, 1842. 



Montagu Test. Brit., 1803. 



Monatb Dissert sur le Taret de Holland. 



Miiller Fauna Dannica, 1788. 



Nyst Foss. Belg, p. 38. 



Oken Zool., p. 216. Allg. Naturg., vi. p. 274. 



Osier On boring Marine Animals, Philos. Trans., p. 342. 1826. 



Pallas Reise, Sud Russ., p. 418, 1771—76. Tabl. Phys. de la 



Tauride, p. 40. Spicil, Zool., p. 140, 1767 — 74. 

 Payrandeau Moll, de la Corse, 1826. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



Pennant British Zool., iv. ITIT. 



Philippi Enum. Moll. Sicil., i. 1836; ii. 1844. 



Pliny Hist. Nat., lib. xxi. cap. 80. 



Poll Testacea utriusque Siciliae, pt. 2, 1795. 



Potiez et Michaud Gallerie des Mollusques, ii. 1844. 



Pultney Dorsetshire Catalogue, 1799. 



Qaatrefages Ann. des Sciences Naturelles, 3d ser., xi. 



Rang Manuel de Conch., 1829. 



Recluz Rev. et Mag. de Zoologie, 2d ser., i. p. G4. 



Reeve Conch. Syst., p. 37, 1841. 



Roissy Moll., vi. p. 454, 1805. 



Rousset Obs. sur I'Origine etc. des Vers, de Mer., 1733. 



Rumphius Museum. 



Schacchi Cat. Coq. Reg. Neap., p. 8, 1836. 



Schruter Einleituiig in die Conchylien, ii. 1784. 



Schumacher Essai d'un Nov. Syst., p. 94, 1817. 



Schweigger Natiirgeschichte, 1820. 



Seba Museum, iii. t. 94, 1761. 



Sellius Commerc, liter. Nov., p. 409, 1732. Hist. Nat. Teredi- 



nis, 1733. 



Sismondi Syn. An. Foss. 



Sowerby Illustrations of British Shells, 1859. Genera of Shells, 



1820—24. Coachological Manual, 1842. 



Spengler Skrivt. Nat., ii. pt. 1, 1792. 



Stimpson Check-List, 1860. Bost. Proc. Shells of New Eng- 



land, 1851. 



Swainson Elements, 1835. Treatise on Malacology, 1840. 



Thompson Edinburg Mag., xviii. p. 121, 1834. Fauna of Ireland 



in Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., xx. 



Thorpe, C British Marine Conchology, 1844. 



Turton Conchological Dictionary, 1819. Conchylia diihvra 



Brit., 1822. 



Tufts Proc. Essex Inst., i. p. 26. 



Vallianieri Op. Phys. Med., ii. 



Voigt Cuv. Thierr, iii. 



Walcli Naturgforsch, X. p. 38. 



Wheatley, C. M Catalogue of Shells of United States, 1842. 



Wood, Wm Index Testaceologicus, edit. 2, 1828. 



Woodward, S. P Manual of Mollusca, pt. 2, 1854. 



Si/nonymy and Descriptions. 



Order PEOLADACEA. 



(Family 1. PHOLADIDjE.) 



(F&mi\j 2. GASTROCR.^NIDjE.) 



Family 3. TEREDID^E, Carpenter. 



TEREDiDyK, Carpenter, Lectures on Mollusca, p. 100. 



Teredina, (part.) Sieb. Lehrb. vgl. Anat., p. 235. 



Teredinadce, (part.) Fleming, Hist. Brit. Anim., p. 454. 



Teredinida, (part.) Fleming, Hist. Brit. Anim., p. 409. 



Fholadida, (part.) Gray, Zool. Proc, 1847, p. 187. Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. 



Hist , 2d ser. viii. p. 381. Woodward, Manual, p. 327. Adams, Genera, 



ii. p. 323. 



1862.] 




4G0 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Pholadaria, (part.) Lamarck, Phil. Zool., 1809. Lamarck, Extr. d'un Cours., 

 1812. Liraarck, Anim. sans. Vert. vi. 441. Hanley, Desc. Cat., p. 5. 

 Sowerby, Conch. Man., p. 224. 



J'holadarice, (part.) Latreille, Fam. Nat. 



I'holadea, (part.) Auton, Versucb., p. 1. Menke, Synopsis, p. 121, 2d edit. 



Fholadete, (part.) Menke, Syn., p. 73, 1st edit. 



Pholddes, (part.) Ferussac, Tabl. Syst. 



Pholadina, (part.) Milne-Edwards, Conch., p. 203. 



Pholadoidce, (part.) Agassiz, Nomenclator Zool. 



Pholadria, (part.) Sism., Syn. An. Foss. 



Pholcdaria, (part.) Brown, Syst. urw. Conch. 



P/wlidce, (part.) Swainson, Elements et Malacology. 



P/ioIidcea, (part.) Leach, teste Swainson, Malacology. 



Adesmacea, (part.) Blainville, Malacol., p. 577. 



Subfamily 1. TEREDLN"^, Try on. 



Tekedin^, Tryon, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, p. 193, April, 1862. 



Teredina, (part.) Gray, Zool. Proc, 1847, p. 188. 



Teredinina. (part.) Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist , 2d ser. viii. p. 38G. 



TeredinwcB, (part.) Adams, Genera, ii. p. 331. Cbenu, Man, Conchyl. il. p. 10. 



Genus TEREDO, Linnaus. 



Teredo, Linn., Syst. Nat. edit. 10, p. 651; id. edit. 12, p. 1267. Adams, Ge- 

 nera, ii. p. 331. Adanson, Senegal, Coquillages, p. 263. Adanson, Hist, 

 de I'Acad., 1759. Blainville, Diet. Sc. Nat. lii. p. 259. Bosc, Conch, 

 ii. p. 197. Brown, Conch. Gt. Brit. p. 116. Bruguiere, Encyc. Meth. i. 

 p. 12. Burrows, Conch, p. 124. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 2. Chenu, 

 Man. Conchyl. ii. p. 10. Chenu, Encyc. Hist. Nat. p. 233. Crouch, 

 Introd. Lamarck's Conchology, p. 6. Cuvier, Regne Anim. edit. 1, ii, p. 

 493 ; id. edit. 2, iii. p. 159 ; id. edit. Griffith, xii. p. 123 ; id. edit. Au- 

 douin, Moll. p. 232. Cuvier, Ann. du Mus. xix. 1812. Cuvier, Tabl. 

 Elem. p. 432. Cuvier, Anat. Comparit., 1800. Dekay, Moll. N. Y., p. 

 249. Delle Chiaje, Mem. iv. p. 21. Deshayes, Moll. Expl. Algerie, p. 35. 

 Deshayes, Ann. des Sc. Nat., 2d ser. xi. p. 247. Deshayes, Traite Elem. 

 i. pr. 2, p. 47. Deshayes, Encyc. Meth. iii. p. 1002. Dillwyn, Desc. Cat., 

 p. 1087. D'Orbigny, Moll. Sagra's Cuba.p. 210. D'Orbigny, Pal. Fran. 

 Terr. Cret., iii. Eichwald, Faun. Caspio-Caucasica. Ferussac, Tabl. 

 Syst., p. xlv. Fischer, Journ. Conch., 2d ser., i. p. 129. Fleming, Brit. 

 Anim. Forbes and Hanley, Brit. Moll., i. p. 58. Frey and Leuckart, 

 Beitr. z. kenntn. Wirbel. p. 46. Georgi, Beschr. Riiss. Thierr. iii. Ger- 

 ville. Cat. Coq. de la Manche. Gmelin, Syst. Nat., p. 3747. Gould, 

 Invert. Mass., p. 26. Gould, Bost. Proc, vi. p. 15, and Otia Concholo- 

 gica, p. 222. Goldfuss, Zool., p. 613. Gray, London Med. Repository, 

 XV. p. 237. Gray, Syn. Brit. Mus., p. 76, 91, 1842; id. Philos. Mag., 

 1827, p. 410 ; id. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 2d ser., viii. p. 381. Guerin, 

 Iconog. du Reg. Anim. Hanley, Desc Cat., p. 3. Hanley, Shells of 

 Linn. p. 450. Heinrich, Medizinische Zeit., p. 372. Home, Phil. Trans., 

 1806, p. 270. Home, Lect. Anat., t. 81, f. 4, 5. Humphrey, Conch. 

 Jay, Cat., 4th edit., p. 9. Jeffreys, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 3d ser., 

 vi. p. 121. Kammerer, Cab. Kudolst, p. 7. Karsten, Mus. Leskeanum, p. 

 308. Kurtz, Cat., p. 3. Lamarck, Prodr., p. 90; id. Syst. p. 129, 1801 ; 

 Phil. Zool. ; id. Anim. sans Vert., v. p. 438, and 2d edit., vi. p. 35. 

 Laurent, Journ. Conchyl., i. Loven, Index Moll. Scand., p. 50. Mathe- 

 lon, Ann. des Sc. du Midi, France, i. and ii. Maton and Rackett, Linn. 

 Trans., viii. p. 249. Menke, Syn. Meth., ed. 2, p. 122. Mawe, (?onch., 

 p. 197. MiddendorfiF, Mai. Rossica, iiL p. 79. Moller, Moll. Greenland. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



Montagu, Test. Brit., p. 7. Nyst, Foss. Belg., p. 38. Oken, Zool., p. 216. 

 Oken, Allg. Naturg., vi. p, 274, Osier, Phil. Trans., 1826. Pallas, 

 Misc. Zool. Pallas, Reise, Sud. Russ., p. 418. Pallas, Tabl. Phys., p. 

 40. Payraudeau, Coq. de la Corse, p. 26. Pennant, Brit. Zool., iv. p. 

 147. Philippi, Eaum. Moll. Sicil., i. p. 2, and ii. p. 3. Pliny, Hist. Nat. 

 lib., xxi. Cap. 80. Poli, Test. utr. Sicil. Potiez et Michaud, Gallerie 

 des Moll., ii. p. 270. Pultney, Dorset. Cat. Quatrefages, Ann. So. Nat., 

 3d ser., xi. p. 21. Rang, Manuel, p. 346. Recluz, Rev. et Mag. Zool., 

 2d ser., i. p. 64. Reeve, Conch. Syst., p. 37. Roissy, Moll., vi. p. 454. 

 Scacchi, Cat. Coq. Reg. Neap., p. 8. Schroter, Einleit, ii. p. 571. Schu- 

 macher, Essai d'un Nov. Syst., p. 94. Schweigg, NatUrg. p. G99. Sel- 

 lius, Commerc. Liter. Nov., p. 409. Sellius, Hist. Nat. Teredinis. 

 Sowerby, Genera. Sowerby, Conch. Man,, ed. 1, p. 5 ; ed. 2, p. 272. 

 Sowerby, Hlust. Brit. Shells, t. 1. Spengler, Skrivt. Nat., ii. pt. 1, p. 

 99. Stimpson, Bost. Proc, iv. p. 113. Stimpson, Shells, N. E., p. 26. 

 Swainson, Malacol., p. 364. Thompson, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., xx. 

 p. 174 Thompson, Edinb. Phil. Mag., xviii. p. 121. Thorpe, Brit. Mar. 

 Conch., p. 27. Turton, Conch, dithyra, p. 13. Tufts, Proc. Essex Inst., 

 p. 26. Wheatley, Catalogue. Woodward, Manual, p. 329. 



Serpula. Da Gosta, Brit. Shells, p. 21. 



Fistulana. (part.) Lamarck, Anim. sans. Vert., v. p. 438; id. 2d edit., vi. p. 35. 

 Blainville, Diet. So. Nat., xvii. p. 82. Blainville, Mal.,p. 579. Favanne, 

 Conchyl. Chenu, Man. Uonchyl., ii. p. 12. 



Guetera, (part.) Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 2d ser., viii. p. 381. 



Uperotis, (part.) Adams, Genera, ii. p. 333. 



Bruma, Vallisnieri, Op. Phys. Med., ii. 



Pholas, (part.) Miiller, Prodr. Zool. Dan., p. 251, Fabricius, Fauna Green., p. 

 427. 



Dentalium, (part.) Linnaeus, Faun. Suec. 380. 



Ligniperda, Sellius. 



Xylophagus, Gronovius, Zooph. p. 258. Sellius. 



Solen. Klein, De Tub. 



Siphonium. (part.) Browne. 



Species. 

 a. Valves externally smooth and glossy, or regularly transversely striated. 

 T. b i p a r t i t a, Jeffreys. 



T. hip artita, Jeffreys, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 3d ser. vi. p. 123. 



Hab. — " In cedrela odorata (or West India Cedar.), thrown ashore, perhaps 

 by the gulf stream, at Guernsey, with T. spatha." — Jeffreys. 



Description. — " Tube ? valves oval, thin, compressed, covered with a 



brownish epidermis ; body smooth and glossy ; anterior auricle moderately de- 

 veloped, angle rather obtuse, striaj very numerous and crowded ; posterior auri- 

 cle rounded, small but prominent, appressed to body, apex placed below the 

 crown, internal margin indistinct ; fang narrow and pointed; tubercle small; 

 apophysis narrow. Pallets resembling those of T. p e d i c e 11 a ta, but longi- 

 tudinally divided into two equal parts by a deep furrow; stalk cylindrical, 

 rather longer than pallet. 



Dimensions. — " Length (of valves) 4-20ths ; breadth 3-20tb8." — Jeffreys. 



T. e X c a v a t a, Lnkis. 



T. ex c ava t a, Lukis, MSS. Jeffreys, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 3d ser. vi. p. 123. 



ITab. — " In drift fir. Guernsey and Sussex. Rare." — Jeffreys. 



Description. — " Tube short, rather solid, and detached from the wood, slight- 

 ly curved, jointed at intervals, with a very few transverse wrinkles at the open- 

 ing, and an indistinct siphonal ridge. Valves roundish oval, thin, compressed; 



1862.] 



32 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



body glossy, marked with distant, but regular and fine, striae or impressed lines ; 

 anterior auricle placed nearly at a right angle with the insertion of the fang, 

 striae rather numerous and waved ; posterior auricle dilated and somewhat re- 

 flected, apex nearly on a level with the crown or umbo of the valve, inner mar- 

 gin free and well defined; tubercle slight, and not visible when the valve is in 

 a supine position ; fang obtuse ; apophysis thin and narrow. Pallets long and 

 narrow, bifid in front to nearly half their length, with two corresponding tubu- 

 lar cavities which terminate in separate points like the prongs of a steel fork ; 

 underneath they are abruptly sloped towards the bifurcate points, and closely 

 striated in a longitudinal direction ; stalks near as long as pallets, pointed at 

 one end and at the other merging into the pallets. 



Dimensions. — Length (of valves) 7-20ths; breadth 4-20ths." — Jeffreys. 



T. f u s t i c u 1 u s, Jeffreys. 



T. f u 3 t i c u 1 u s , Jeffreys, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 3d ser. vi. p. 125. 



Ilab. — In Cedrella odorata from Leith. 



Description. — " Tube short and straight, with a slight calcareous lining, which 

 is not easily separated from the wood. It is thickened internally at the opening, 

 and has a few transverse wrinkles in that pert. 



Yalves round, thin, compressed, body smooth, glossy, white under a brown 

 epidermis ; anterior auricle of moderate size, angle about 50°, strise numerous ; 

 posterior auricle round expanded and appresaed to body, internal edge well de- 

 fined ; fang broad, obtuse ; tubercle small and sunk ; apophysis thin and narrow. 

 Pallets club-shaped, formed of several transverse layers, and externally tuber- 

 culate ; stalk twice the lepgth of pallet. 



Dimensions. — Length (of valve) 4-20ths ; breadth nearly as much." — Jef- 

 freys. 



T. 8 p a t h a, Jeffreys. 



T. spat ha, Jeffreys. Ann. and. Mag. Nat. Hist. 3d ser. vi. p. 124. 



Eab. — With T. bipartita, in Cedrela odorata, at Guernsey. 



Description. — " Tube rather long and flexuous, detachable, regularly jointed, 

 increasing rapidly from the extremity, inside which there are a few transverse 

 wrinkles and a sharp, but short, siphonal ridge. 



Valves, triangular, compressed, rather solid ; body smooth ; anterior auricle 

 large, angle about 50°, strise exceedingly numerous and fine ; middle area un- 

 usually large ard rounded and appressed, internal margin indistinct; fang nar- 

 row and pointed ; tubercle small and sunk ; apophysis narrow. Pallets spade- 

 shaped, in the young state calyciform ; stalk of the same length as pallet. 



Dimensions. — Length (of valves) G-20ths; breadth nearly as much. A pair 

 of pallets is in the British Museum, from Miss Saull ; and another pair is in the 

 collections of Natural History at the Jardin des Plants. The localities of both 

 the last-mentioned specimens are unknown."' — Jeffreys. 



T. subericola, Macgillivray. 



T. subericola, Macgillivray, Mss. Jefi'reys, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 3d ser. 

 vi. p. 122. 



Hab. — Great Britain. 



Description. — Tube rather thin, and adherent to wood, short, of the form of 

 an elongated cone curved at the opening, with internal irregular transverse sep- 

 ta, which are close-set at the extremity. 



Valves oval, rather convex, thin ; body smooth and somewhat glossy: ante- 

 rior auricle short, angle obtuse, strias rather numerous; posterior auricle nar- 

 row, falciform, reflected at the outer edge, with its apex raised above the crown ; 

 tubercle strong and prominent; fang long, narrow, and incurved ; apophysis 

 rather broad. Pallets short, pear-shaped, compressed, and expanded towards 

 the anterior margin, with a semilunar depression in the middle and a longitu- 

 dinal groove in front ; stalk short and pointed. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463 



Dimensions. — Length (of valves) 5-20th3, breadth 4-20ths. The embryon- 

 ic state of some of the specimens which occur living in cork, as well as the na- 

 ture of the material, induce me to consider this species indigenous. The pos- 

 terior auricle is so small in comparison with that of T. megotara, that Dr. 

 Lukis proposed the name of " microtara" for this species. Specimens in cork 

 are frequently encysted. — Jeffreys. 



h. External surface of the valves ornamented by a narrow radiating area with 

 crowded sculptured lines. 



* PalleU. 



Blade spatulate, truncate at the end. Concave on one Ipjorvajrica 



side, convex on the other. Tube concamerated. ) ° 



Blade spatulate, truncate at the end. Concave on one )a„„ „i„„,-, 



• J iT_ ii, rr 1 a J-a en e gale nsi s . 



side, convex on the other lube: ) ° 



Blade spatulate, truncate at the end. Concave on one l^jyaricata 



side, blade very short. Tube concamerated, ) 



Blade spatulate, but the sides incurved in the middle, ) j, „ y « i ; g 



end margin concave. Tube not concamerated, ) 



Somewhat hastate, but truncate and heart-shaped atimegotara 



the end. Tube not concamerated ) nana. 



Angularly ovate, dilating into a broad blade, abruptly )(jiiQ + QtQ 



truncate. Tube not concamerated ) 



Transverse, end margin sinuous, stalk deflected at ani 



angle from the plane of the blade. Tube not con- > m a 1 1 e o 1 u s . 



camerated } 



Palseform, dilated, profoundly emarginate at the end. ) „ i „ „ _. „ ^ o 



Tube ? j- e 1 o n g a I a . 



Obliquely truncate, tridentate and serrate at the end. ). „„ + „ 



Tube? ftruncata. 



Narrow, long, colored, stalk white. Tube not concam- )^^j-„ii„+„ 

 \ 3 >pea.icellata. 



* * Valves. 



Posterior auricle broad, towering above the beaks, i^^^^Tueeota 



basal edge situated lower than that of the anterior > „ °^ „ ^ 



area j 



Posterior auricle broad, not extending above the beaks, ^navalis 



its basal edge situated lower than that of the ante- Vpedicellata 



rior area jdilatata. 



Posterior auricle broad, not extending above the beaks, ) t>j ^ 



its basal edge even with that of the anterior area ) s ' • 



Posterior auricle narrow, apex extending above the \ 



beaks, the lower edge even with that of the ante- > m a 1 1 e o 1 u s . 



rior area 7 



Posterior auricle narrow, apex not extending above the \ 



beaks, the lower edge even with that of the ante- >divaricata. 



rior area J 



The above table of distinctive characters must be used with extreme cau- 

 tion, as individuals of the various species sometimes occur which do not well 

 accord with their characters as given therein. 



Several East Indian species are but partially included, because the descrip- 

 tions are not sufficiently accurate for the arrangement of their valves, 



T. elongata, Quatrefages. 



T. elongata, Quatrefages, Ann. Sc. Nat. 3d ser. xi. p. 33. Adams, Genera, 



ii. p. 333. Fischer, Journ. de Conchyl. 2d ser. i. p. 133. Jeffreys, 



Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 3d ser. vi. p. 12(j. 

 T. Senegalensis, Fischer, Mel. Conchyl. p. 19, t. 4, f. 2—6. 



1862.] 




464 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



T. Petiiii, Recluz, Rev. et Mag. Zool. 2 ser. i. p. 64. 



Hab. — Indian Ocean. — Eydoux and Souleyet. 

 East coast of Africa. — Wehhe. 



Description. — "Coquille assez solide, allongee, a angle anterienr tres ouvert 

 (95° — 100°) ; oreillette anterieure courte ; posterieure etroite, allongee, non 

 relevee ; sommet tronque avec una legere crete horizontale depassant la cal- 

 losite de la charniere et situee aii-dessus ; apophyse styloide mince ; palettes 

 obliquement tronquees, bicuspides ; tube fragile." — Fischer. 



Rechiz tlms describes T. Peiitii. 



"T. palmulis diiabus rectis, palfeformibus ; latere dilatato, profunde eniar- 

 giuato ; dentus obtnsiusculis ; tubo brevi, cylindrico-conico, vix arcuato ; 

 postice sixperne ac inferne emarginato, lateraliter angalis binis producto. 



"Hab. troiive par W. Webbe dans un morceau de palmier venant du hant 

 de la riviere de Grand-Bassam (cote ouest d'Afrique), et envoye k M. Petit de 

 la Saussaie, qui a bien voulu nous pernaettre de le decrire. 



"Coquille subglobuleuse, echancree a la partie antero-inferieure d'un peu 

 plus du quart de son volume. Les valves sont plus hautes que tongues, cour- 

 bces en arc, auriculees superieurement a leur cote anterienr et brusque- 

 ment attenuees en pointe a I'inferieur ; convexes en dehors, concaves en de- 

 dans et auriculees, en avant et en arriere. Auricules anterieures anguleuses, 

 profondement striees lougitudinalement (trans versalement Lk.), avec les 

 lignes elevees,croisees en arriere. Auricules posterieures ascendantes a la marge 

 et subtronquees. Le centre des valves divise en denx parties par nn large 

 sillon vertical orne de stries arquees ; la partie anteriure sculptce d'avant en 

 arriere par des lignes regulieres saillantes et granuleuses ; la posterieure par 

 d'autres lignes moins en relief, obliquant d'arriere en avant, courbees au 

 sommet et a la base, ou elles se continuent evec celles du sillon. Auricules 

 posterienres ascendantes a la marge et tronquees. Appendice de I'interieure 

 des valves arque, aplati, etroit et prolonge jusqu' aux deux tiers de leur face 

 iuterieure. 



" Tube cornico-cylindrique, un peu arque, reconvert d'un epiderme, brun, 

 rugueux, tres-ouvert et a bords minces en avant, solide en arriere, echancre en 

 dessus plus fortement qu'en dessous, a cotes prolonges en pointe obtuse et 

 renforces en dedans par un angle aigu correspondant aux echancrures des 

 palettes. Longueur 26 millim. ; largeur : en avant 6 millim. ^ ; en arriere 

 2 millim |." 



T. dilatata, Stimpson. 



T. dilatata, Stimpson, Bost. Proc iv. 1851, p. 113. Stimpson, Check 

 List, No. 250. Stimpson, Shells of New England, p. 26. Adams, Gen- 

 era ii. p. 333. Kurtz, Cat. p. 3. Tufts, Proc. Essex Inst. i. p. 26. 



Hab. — United States from the coast of Massachusetts to South Carolina. 



Coll. Acad. Nat. Sciences. 



Description. — "Valves white, polished; length and breadth equal; ante- 

 rior area with fine, concentric, somewhat divergent striae, varying in num- 

 ber in different specimens, and more crowded below ; the slightly oblique 

 lines on the succeeding narrow area are very minute but sharp ; the next, 

 fang-shaped area is ornamented with distant, narrow, elevated, subimbrica- 

 ted, concentric lines, more conspicuous on the anterior than on the posterior 

 half of the area ; the remaining portion of the body and the auricle are 

 smooth and glossy. The auricle is not separated from the body by any sharp 

 angle on the posterior ventral outline, but by a gently waved sinus. A de- 

 pressed line runs from the beak around to the tip of the auricle, which does 

 not tower above the callosities of the hinge. The siibumbonal blade is thin, 

 tapering, and extends to about half the distance from the beak to the ventral 

 edge. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 465 



'' The pallets are of an angular ovate form, truncated posteriorly, where 

 also, on the external surface there is a small depressed area. The style of 

 insertion is sharp, and extends in the form of a ridge for some distance on both 

 sides after its juncture with the pallet. The tubes are very thin, strongly 

 concamerated posteriorly in an imbricated manner. This species dilfers from 

 T. megotara, Hanley, which it greatly resembles, in the smaller altitude 

 of the valves, the greater breadth of the auricle, which is also placed much 

 lower, and in its concamerated tubes. 



" Length of valves nearly one-half of an inch. 



" For many living specimens of this species, I am indebted to Mr. S. Tuft?, 

 of Lynn (Mass.), who obtained them from a pine buoy used to indicate the 

 positiou of the lobster pots of fishermen. Thus there can be no doubt of their 

 being indigenous. They commit yearly great ravages upon the shipping of 

 Lynn and Marblehead." — Stimpson^s description. 



T. divaricata, Deshayes. 



T. divaricata, Deshayes, MSS. Fischer, Journ. Conchyl., 2d ser. i. p. 137, 

 t. 7, f. 7, 8, 9. 

 T. Norvagica, var. divaricata, Jeffreys, Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. 3d ser. 

 vi. p. 121. 



Habitat. — Sicily. 



Description. — Shell globular, convex, heavy, full as wide as its length. An- 

 terior auricle very large and long, being two-thirds the length of the fang ; 

 its anterior margin thick, appearing almost ribbed, somewhat concave but 

 nearly straight, inclining outwards ; basal margin very convex, joining the 

 fang by an acute angle. The fang is but slightly raised above the anterior area 

 and is itself somewhat lower, or nearly on a level with the margin of the pos- 

 terior auricle ; the whole dorsal edge of the shell is slightly convex. Lateral 

 margins of the fang inclining obliquely, with the ventral termination truncate. 

 Posterior auricle very small, (almost none,) much longer than wide, but its 

 basal margin does not extend nearly so far down as that of the anterior area. 

 The latter is covered with concentric striae, which, at its junction with the 

 body, are recurved obliquely downwards and posteriorward. The space be- 

 tween the centre and posterior lateral margin of the fang, appears to be occu- 

 pied by the same double, narrow, closely striated radiating area, that is found 

 on the anterior side in T. megotara, &c. Posterior auricle somewhat 

 striated. Internal dorsal margin very wide and massive. Apophysis wide, 

 recurved backwards in front. 



Pallets truncate, resembling those of T. Norvagica, their blades very 

 short. 



Mr. Jeffreys considers this a variety of T. Norvagica, but, if Fischer's figures 

 can be depended on, it is certainly very distinct from that species. It may be 

 proper to add, that my description is made up from that of Fischer, and his 

 illustrations. 



T. malleolus, Turton. 



T. malleolus, Turton, Conch. Dithyra, p. 255, t. 2. f. 19. Adams, Genera, 

 ii. p. 333. Brown, Conch. Gt. Brit. p. 11(), t. 50, f. IG. Fleming, 

 Brit. Anim. p. 454. Gray, Phil. Mag. 1827, p. 410. Gray, Ann. & 

 Mag. Nat. Hist. 2 ser. viii.'p. 38(3. Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 4, t. 11, f. 23. 

 Hanley, Brit. Moll. i. p. 84, t. 1, f. 12-14. Jeffreys, Ann. & Mag. Nat. 

 Hist. 3d ser. vi. p. 123. Sowerby, 111. Brit. Shells, t. 1, f. 5. Thomp- 

 son, Fauna of Ireland, Ann. k Mag. Nat. Hist. xx. p. 174. Thorpe, 

 Brit. Mar. Conch, p. 28. 

 Hah. — England, Ireland, (introduced.) Native habitat Sumatra. 

 Description. — Valve, with the body very convex, narrow, much longer than 



18(52.] 




466 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



broad, the anterior area moderate, tlie posterior narrow and extending above 

 tlie beaks. 



Anterior auricle with its dorsal margin declining concavelv from the beak 

 to a lateral angle, whence its basal margin extends rather convexly and ob- 

 liquely downwards to its junction at an angle with the body, the point of junc- 

 tion being horizontal with, or slightly below that of the posterior auricle, and 

 at about two-fifths the length of the shell from its apes. 



The lateral margins of the fang are, anteriorly very slightly concave, pos- 

 teriorly convex, and the ventral termination is infolded, forming a strong 

 internal tubercle. 



Posterior auricle quite narrow, being about three times as long as its width, 

 reaching in typical specimens slightly above the beaks ; its posterior margin 

 is very oblique and curved, following the direction of the fang. Beaks ele- 

 vated, not wide. 



Internally, the shell is quite concave, with the auricles but little reflected, 

 the posterior one marked by a shell-like ridge extending over the body. Apo- 

 physis oblique, slanting posteriorly, strongly clavate at its termination. Dor- 

 sal margin somewhat lamellar, becoming prominently elevated at the beaks, 

 where it is crowned by a tubercle. 



Color white, glossy ; the anterior area elegantly concentrically sculptured, 

 the anterior side of the body ornamented with the usual narrow radiating and 

 decussately striated area, posterior to which the surface gradually becomes 

 smooth. 



The tube is semi-concamerated, and very fragile. 



The pallets are widely different from those of any other species, the blade 

 being very transverse, much broader than long and widest at the apex, whicli 

 is a horizontal sinuous line : botli lateral margins are generally angularly con- 

 vex, rapidly diminishing to the short compressed stalk. The stalk, instead of 

 continuing in the same plane as the broad side of the blade, is deflected from 

 it at an obtuse angle. * 



T. megotara, Hanley. 



T. megotara, Hanley, Brit. Conch, i. p. 77, t. 1, f. 6, and t. 18, f. 1, 2. 

 Jeffreys, Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. 3d ser. vi. p. 121. Sowerby, lUust. 

 Brit. Shells, t. 1, f. 3. 



nana, (part.) Fischer, Journ. Conchyl. 2 ser. i. p. 136. Gray Ann. & Mag. 

 Nat. Hist. 2 ser. viii. p. 386. 



oceani, Sellius, Hist. Nat. Tered. 



Bruvia deU'oceano, Vallisnieri, Op. Phys. Med. 



Ilab. — England. 



Coll. Acad. Nat. Sciences. 



Description. — Valves about as wide across the auricles as their length, the 

 body rapidly attenuated to the base. The anterior auricle is moderate and 

 subtriangular ; the posterior is dilated, very large, and rising above the beak, 

 while its basal margin extends below the line of that of the anterior area. 



The anterior area nearly approximates in form to that of T. N o r v a g i c a and 

 joins the body below, at right angles. The posterior auricle exhibits a marked 

 difference from that of the last-named species ; its dorsal margin is so very 

 concave in form as ordinarily to exhibit an approach to three-fourths of a circle, 

 the highest posterior point of which is curved forwards somewhat, so that the 

 dorsal" apex of the auricle points anteriorly and extends above the beak. 

 From this highest point the margin posterioiward is obliquely declining and 

 moderately convex in outline to the extreme posterior extension, (which is 

 considerably below the middle of the auricle) whence it sweeps around very 

 convexlj^, joining the fang or body considerably below the middle of the valve, 

 and below the line of the base of the anterior area, by a somewhat rounded 

 angle. The anterior lateral margin of the body is directed posteriorly, and is 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 467 



sligLtly flexuous or nearly straight ; the posterior lateral margin is more con' 

 vex, and eventually sweeps rapidly to the anterior side, its junction with 

 which forms an acute or narrow ventral termination. The beaks are very 

 narrow, tuberculated, and elevated. 



The surface externally and internally, like the other species, is ivory white 

 and somewhat polished. The anterior area is concentrically sculptured, be- 

 coming more crowded towards its base ; it is separated by a slightly impressed 

 line from the body. The body is ornamented by a radiating narrow area, in- 

 creasing towards the base, both sides defined by a furrow. Tliis area is sub- 

 divided into two, and is closely transversely striated, and marked less fre- 

 quently by minute raised ridges, directed obliquely downwards to the centre 

 from each outer margin. The surface of the fang and auricle posterior to the 

 radiating area, is smooth or sparingly striate. The auricle is not separated 

 from the body by any marked line, but its commencement is marked by the 

 transition from a convex to a concave surface, caused by the great outward 

 reflexion of the auricle. 



Internally, the beak is small but prominent, bearing a narrow oblique rib 

 on its surface, and turned posteriorly. The apophysis hugs rather closely to 

 the bodj", and is thin, blade-shaped and acuminated to the end. The ventral 

 tubercle is well formed and conspicuous but does not exhibit much evidence 

 of arising from an internal rib. The auricle is not internally defined, save by 

 the greater thinness and translucency of its substance. 



The pallets are small, the blades are somewhat heart shaped at the apex, 

 rounded and curved outwards to an extreme point near their base on either 

 side. These points are not opposite, but one is situated higher on the blade 

 than the other ; from these the margins concavely contract into tlie stalks, 

 which become narrower towards their termination, ending in a point. 



Tube solid, not concamerated, twelve to eighteen inches long. Diameter of 

 valves about half an inch. Mr. Hanley described this species in the British 

 MoUusca, supposing it to be identical with Turton's T. n a n a , whose name 

 and description he suppressed on the ground that they were founded on young 

 and imperfect shells. It has since been ascertained that this species is dis- 

 tinct from T. nana. 



Messrs. Fischer and Jeffreys both consider T. d i I a t a t a of Stimpson, a 

 synonym of this species, but the concamerated tube and differently formed 

 pallets are prominent distinctive characters. 



The blade of the pallet in d i 1 a t a t a dilates convexly from a very fragile 

 stalk into a broadly oval form, truncate at the end, while in T. m e g o t a r a 

 the dilation is concave to a point on each side, from which the margins are 

 narrowed and rounded to a bilobed truncated end. The pallets ofdilatata 

 are more nearly allied to those ofNorvagica than tomegotara. 



T. n a n a , Turton. 



T. nana, Turton, Conch. Dithvra, p. 16, t. 2, f. 67. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 

 333. Brown Conch. Gt. Brit. p. 116, t. 50, f. 14, 15. Catlow, Conch. 

 Nomenc. p. 3. Fleming, Brit. Anim. p. 455. Gray, Phil. Mag. 1S27, 

 p. 410. Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 4, t. 11, f. 22. Jetfreys, Ann. & Mag. 

 Nat. Hist. 3d ser. vi. p. 122. Thorpe, Brit. Mar. Conch, p. 29. 

 T. nana, (part.) Fischer, Journ, Conchyl. 2d ser. i. p. 136. Gray, Ann. 

 & Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 386. 

 T. 77iavalis, MoUer, Moll. Groon. 

 T. denticulata, Gray, Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 386. Adams, 



Genera, li. p. 333. Fischer, Journ. Conchyl. 2d ser. i. p. 135. 

 Pholas Teredo, Miiller, Prodr. Tool. Dan, p. 251. Fabricus, Faun. Groen. 



p. 427. 

 Hah. — England. " Floating wood. Occurs with T. megotara and 

 saber icola, but by no means so numerous as either of them." Jcff'reys, 

 Northern Ocean. Greenland. 



1862.] 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Description. — Having no good figure of T. nana, nor specimens to refer to, 

 I can only give the distinctive characters from T. megotara as pointed 

 out by Mr. Jeffreys, and also Fischer's description of T. denticulata. 



"Coquille subspherique, mince, trcs-ouverte anterieurement et posterieur- 

 ment, inegalement divisee en deux portions par un zonule submediane ; bord 

 anterieur etroit, formant un angle droit profond, oreillette anterieure aigue 

 postcrieure lisse, plus large, reflechie. Palettes ovalves, allongees, minces ; 

 pedicule grcle, court, aigu." — Fischer. 



" It differs from megotara in the valves being more compressed and 

 solid, in the anterior auricle being much smaller, and having a more obtuse 

 angle and fewer striae, in the posterior auricle being larger and higher, and 

 especially in the very strong and prominent tubercle or false tooth. The tube 

 of T. n a n a appears to be destitute of calcareous lining, except towards the 

 entrances, while T. megotara forms a solid tunnel ; and the lunule of the 

 pallets is more incised in T. n a n a . Adult specimens measure 21 inches 

 in length. The Turtonian types decidedly belong to this species and not to 

 m e g o t a r a." — Jeffreys. 



Turton's miserable description from imperfect and immature specimens, 

 is — 



" Shell with the valves rounded, and luithout auricles behind, a strong conic 

 tooth on the margin above the teeth. ' 



T. n a V a 1 i s , Linn. 



T. naval is, Linnseus, Syst. Nat. ed. 10, p. 651 ; ed. 12, p. 1267. Adams, 

 Genera, ii. p. 333. Blainville, Diet. Sc. Nat. lii. p. 267. Bose, Conch, 

 ii. p. 202, t. 5, f. 4-7. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. .3. Cheuu, Encyc. 

 Hist. Nat. Moll. p. 233, f. 245-7. Cuvier, Regne Anim. i. ed. ; ii. p. 494. 

 id. ed. 2, iii. p. 160; id. ed. Griffith, xii. t. 8, f. 2 ; id. ed. Audouin. 

 t. 114, f. 2. Delle Chiaje, Mem. iv. p. 23, 32, t. 54, f. 2, S. Desbayes. 

 Traite Elem. i. pt. 2, p. 59, t. 3, f. 1-9. D'Orbigny, Moll.: Sagra^s Cuba, 

 p. 211. Eichwald, Fauna Caspio Caucasica, p. 23. Ferrussao, Encyc, 

 Meth. p. 1003. Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. i. p. 134. Forbes & 

 Hanley, Brit. Moll. i. p. 74, t. 1, f. 7, 8, t. 18. f. 3, 4. Georgi. Beschreib 

 des Russ. Reichs. iii. p. 2216. Gerville, Cat. Coq. Manche. p. 55, 

 Gmelin, Syst. Nat. p. 3747. Gould, Invert. Mass. p. 26. Guerin, 

 Iconog. du Reg. Anim. Moll. t. 33, f. 2. Hanley, Shells of Linn. p. 

 450. Heinrich, Mediciuische Zeitung Russlands, 1845, p. 372. Jay, 

 Desc. Cat. 4th edit. p. 9. Karsten, Mus. Leskeanum, t. 1, p. 308. 

 Lamarck Anim. sans. Vert. v. p. 440. Middendorff, Mai. Rossica, iii. 

 p. 79. Pallas, Reise. Slid. Russ. p. 418. Pallas, Tabl. Phys. de la 

 Tauride, p. 40. Payraudeau, Cog. du Corse, p. 26. Pennant Brit. 

 Zo9l. 1 ed. iv. p. 147. Philippi, Moll. Sicil. i. p. 2 ; ii. p. 3. Poli, 

 Test. Utr. Sicil. pt. 2, t. 57, f. 45, 46. Potiez et Michaud, Gallerie des 

 Moll. ii. p. 273. Scacchi, Cat. Coq. Reg. Neap. p. 8. Sowerby, 111. 

 Brit. Shells, t. 1, f. 1. Wheatlev, Cat. No. 30. 



T. marina, Sellius, Hist. Nat. Tered. t. 2, f. 2, 3, 6. Jeffreys, Ann. & 

 Mag. Nat. Hist. 3d ser. vi. p. 124. 



T. Batava, Spengler, Skrivt. Nat. ii. pt. 1, p. 103, t. 2, f. C. Gray, 

 Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 386. 



2\ vulgaris, Lamarck, Syst. des Anim. s. Vert. ISOl, p. 128. 



Dentalium navis, Linnseus, Faun. Suec. No. 1329. p. 380. Belkmeer, Natur- 

 kundige. Zee, Worm. t. 2, f. 7, 8, 9. Frisch, Mus. Hoffmanniauum, t. 

 1, t. 2, f. 9, t. 3, f. 19, 20, t. 4, f. 2, 5, 6. Massuet, Recherohes sur 

 les Vers. t. 1, f. 1, 2. Monath, Dissert, sur le Taret de HoUande. t. 1, 

 t. 2, f. 9, t. 3, f. 19, 20, t. 4, f. 2, 5, 6. Rousset, p. 15, 16, 17, f. 1, 2, 

 3, 4, 10. Vallisnieri, Nat. ii. t. 4. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



Hah. — England ; Holland ; Senegal ; United States ; North Sea ; Mediterranean 

 Sea. 



Coll. Acad. Nat. Sc. Helgate, New York, from a British frigate sunk dur- 

 ing the revolutionary war. 



Description. Valves about equal in length and breadth, much resembling 

 in general form those of T. Norvagica, but with the posterior auricle 

 expanded somewhat laterally, and its base extending lower than that of the 

 anterior area. The anterior area moderate, not generally so large iu propor- 

 tion to the valve as that of Norvagica, and having a more convex basal 

 margin; it inclines somewhat obliquely downwards to the fang, its junction 

 being considerably higher up than that of the posterior auricle. Anterior 

 lateral margin of the fang nearly straight ; posterior lateral mari;iu much 

 shorter than the other, on account of the lower extension of its auricle, very 

 oblique. Fang acuminating rapidly towards the base. Posterior auricle not 

 ascending, but produced laterally, its dorsal edge mostly somewhat concave, 

 lateral margin nearly straight, a little oblique, rounded at each end. Basal 

 margin slightly declining towards the fang, shorter than the dorsal edge on 

 account of the expansion of the fang laterally. 



The internal ventral tubercle and the dorsal rim do not differ from those of 

 T. Norvagica. The apophysis is broad but thin, not thickened at the 

 end, and the same breadth throughout ; it is twisted so that one sharp edge, 

 instead of the flat of the blade, is turned towards the interior surface of the 

 fang. The posterior auricle is defined by a close, projecting rim. 



Externally, the anterior area is closely striated concentrically, and its pos- 

 terior limit is defined by an impressed line ; succeeding to this is a radiating, 

 narrow area, the closely decussated strire of which, are sometimes quite prom- 

 inent ; posteriorly the surface is sliglitly striate concentrically, becoming 

 smooth. The auricle is defined by a sudden depression in the level of the 

 surface of the fang. 



The pallet is convex on one side and plane on the other ; the stalk, which 

 is about as long as the blade, is moderately thick, and fiexuous ; it is not con- 

 tinued as a rib beyond the commencement of the blade, which diflers from 

 that of T. No rv agio a by being more convex below, (the entire base being 

 semi-circular) with the sides concave, and the end two-pointed, caused by a 

 decided concavity of the centre of the margin. Tube not concamerated, long, 

 flexuous, solid, polished, gradually narrowing. 



Valves and pallets each one-fourth of an inch, and the tube eight inches in 

 length. 



This species is the T. m a r i n a of Sellius, who published, in 1733, an excel- 

 lent description and figures. Unfortunately his ua,me cannot be adopted, be- 

 cause pre-Linnsean, and this is the more to be regretted since the description 

 in the Syst. Nat.* will apply to any species in the genus, and the species is 

 only limited by the reference to the figures of Sellius. 



Mr. Hauley, as one important result of his laborious examination of the types 

 in the collection of the great Swedish naturalist, demonstrated its identity 

 with the species of Sellius. 



The navalis of Brit, authors prior to Forbes and Hanley, is T. N o r v a g i c a , 

 Spengler. Many of the authorities quoted above must be admitted with doubt, 

 — several of their descriptions are ec[ually applicable to any species, and occa- 

 sionally the figures are no more characteristic.f 



It is doubtful whether the navalis of Sicily, Corsica and the Black Sea is 



* " T. Testa tcnuissima cylindrioa lEEvii." — Lin?i. 



t The synonymy and 8pecific description in Deshayes' Expl. Scientifique de I'AIgcrie. Mollus- 

 ques, must be taken with groat caution. The first is an indiscriniinats grouping of refiMcnces to 

 all the species described by dilTorent authors, as the T. navalis of Lain., and the List is sufiReiently 

 general to cover them all ! 



1862.] 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the same as that of Linnaeus ; a close examination will perhaps prove them 

 to be distinct. 



T. Norvagica, Spengler. 



T. Norvagica, Spengler, Skrivt. Nat. ii. pt. 1, p. 102, t. 2, f. 4—6,1792. 



Fischer, Journ. Conch. 2d ser. i. p. 138. Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. 



Hist. 2d. ser. viii. p. 386. Forbes and Hanley, Brit. Mollusca, i. p. 



67, t. 1, f. 1—5. Jeffreys, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 3d ser. vi. p. 121. 



Schumacher, Essai d'un Nov. Syst. p. 94. 

 T. Norvegica, Adams, Genera, ii. p. 333, t. 90, f. 6. a. b. c. d. Chenu, Man. 



Conchyl. tome 2, f. 60, 61. Jay, Catalogue, 4th edit. p. 9. Sowerby, 



Illust. Brit. Shells, t. 1, f. 2. Thompson, Ann. and Mag. N. H. xx. p. 



157. Woodward, Manual, t. 23, f. 26-27. 

 T. Bruguierii, Delle Chiaje, Mem. iv. p. 28, 32, t. 54, f. 9-12. Philippi, 



Moll. Sicil, i. p. 2 ; and ii. p. 3. 

 T. Dc.-ihaii, Quatrefages, Ann. des. Sc. Nat. 3 ser. xi. p. 26. 

 T. faialis. Quatrefages, Ann. des Sc Nat. 3 ser. xi. p. 23, t. 1, f. 1. 

 T. nigra, Blainville, Diet. Sc. Nat. lii. p. 267. 

 T. Senec/alensift, Laurent, Journ. Conchyl. 1. 

 T. navaiis, Brown, Conch. Brit. p. IK!, t. 50, f. 1-7. Burrows, Conch, t. 22, 



f. 4, Crouch, Introd. Lamarck's Conch, t. 2, f. 10. DeKay, Moll. N. 



Y. p. 249, t. 34, f. 325, a. b. c. Donovan, Brit. Shells, v. t. 145. En- 



C3'c. Meth. t. 167, f. 1-5. Fleming, Brit. Anim. p. 454. Gould, In- 

 vert. Mass. p. 26 ? Gray, Phil. Mag. 1827, p. 410. Hanley Desc. Cat. 



p. 3. Humphrey, Conch, t. 10, f. 2, 3. Lamarck, Anim. sans. Vert. 



ed. 2, vi. p. 38 (not Synon's.) Maton and Rackett, Linn. Trans, viii. 



p. 249. Mawe, Conch, t. 35. Montagu, Test. Brit. p. 527 ; and Supp. 



p. 7. Pennant, Brit. Zool. iv. p. 147. Pultney, Dorset. Cat. p. 53, t. 



IS, f. 21. Reeve, Conch. Syst. t. 21. Sowerby, Genera; Sowerby, 



Conch. Man. f. 48. Thorpe, Brit. Mar. Conch, p. 28. Turton, Conch, 



Diet. p. 183. Turton, Conch. Dithyra, p.. 14, t. 2, f. 1, 2, 3. Wood, 



Index Test. t. 38. f. 2. 

 T. navium, Selliiis, Hist. Nat. Tered. t. 1, f. 1, 5. 

 T. Mediterraneus, Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 3. 

 Septaria Mediterranea, Matherou, Ann. des Sc. dn Midi, France, i. p. 77, ii. 



p. 312, t. 1. Deshayes, Traite Elem. i. pt. 2, p. 4G, t. 2, f. 9 and 10. 



Cuvier, Reg. Anim. (ed. Audouin) t. 114, f. 3. 

 SerpuJa Teredo, De Costa, Brit. Shells, p. 21. 

 Brunia dcIle navi, Vallisnieri, Op. Phys. Med. 

 Fistu/ana corniformis, Lamarck, Anim. sans. Vert. v. p. 435 ; 2d edit. vi. p. 



31. Blainville, Diet, des Sc. Nat. xvii. p. 85. Blainville, Man. Mai. t. 



81, f. 4. Chenu, Man. de Conchyl. ii. f. 63. 

 Guetera corniformis. Gray, Ann. and Mag. N. Hist. 2 ser. viii. p. 386. 

 Uperotis corniformis, Adams, Genera, ii. p. 333. 

 Teredo comifonnis, Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 3. Deshays, Nuie in Lam. 



Anim. sans. Vert. 2 edit. vi. p. 29 Gray, Phil. Mag. 1^21, p. 410. 

 Teredo vtricidus, Gmelin, Syst. Nat. p. 3748. Bosc, Conch, ii. p. 202. Dill- 



wyn. Desc. Cat. p. 1089. Kammerer, Cab. Rudolst, p. 7, t. 1 ? Wood, 



Index Test. t. 38, f. 3. 

 Hah. — Channel Isles and Devonshire, England; coast of France ; Senegal? 

 United States ? Mediterranean Sea. 

 Coll. Acad. Nat. Sciences. 



Description. — Valves of moderate size and solidity, longer than broad. The 

 anterior auricle subtriangular, about equalling the posterior in size, and the 

 basal margins of the two being nearly on a horizontal line. The body or fang- 

 shaped portion is rather more than double the length of the auricles, and is 

 about half as wide as its length. The posterior auricle is not elevated nor es- 



[Sept. 




NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



paneled, its outline is semi-orbicular, flattened somewliat on the upper mar- 

 gin, but 'luite convex laterally, and moderately so basally, where its junction 

 with the body is not angulated or but slightly so. 



The dorsal edge of the anterior area descends concavely to an acute point, 

 whence the basal edge, sweeping in a quarter circle and thence continuing 

 horizontally, is brought to join the body or fang almost at right angles. The 

 anterior side of the body from this junction is almost straight to the base, its 

 direction being slightly inclined to the posterior side of the valve. The pos- 

 terior lateral edge of the body from its junction with the auricle is continued 

 towards the base, first slightly, but at length becoming decidedly convex in 

 outline, until its somewhat angular junction by a rounded basal margin, with 

 the anterior side. The surface of thebo'iy towards the beaks becomes convex 

 and elevated, sloping off towards each side and also towards its dorsal mar- 

 gin, which is mostly higher than either auricle, and convex in outline. The 

 dorsal edge of the posterior auricle is generally somewhat concave in outline, 

 descending slightly from the beaks in typical specimens, although occasionally 

 it is parallel with or even rising slightly above them ; its posterior lateral ter- 

 mination is marked by a slight reflexion upwards, from which the marginal 

 outline of the lateral and basal sides, as before stated, is convex to its junc- 

 tion with the body. 



Viewed internally, the whole dorsal margin of the valve is marked by a 

 raised or thickenecl border ; the beaks are rather large and overhanging, cul- 

 minating in an irregular tubercle in the centre, from beneath which springs a 

 rather broad curved blade, which terminates in a rapidly enlarging, rounded 

 or irregular clavate end. The inner surface of the fang or body is also 

 marked by an elevated rib, which, not particularly prominent at first, be- 

 comes more distinct as it approaches the base, and is there arrested and 

 turned upon itself apparently by the infolding of the exterior surface, form- 

 ing a rounded tubercle. The division of the posterior auricle from the fang is 

 Internally defined by an oblique curved carina, the lower edge of which, near 

 the beaks, slightly projects over the inner disc, but it does not, as in some of 

 the other species, form a continuous ledge from the beaks to the margin. 

 The internal surface of the fang is hollowed in the centre, rising towards either 

 auricle, which becomes convex in the middle and laterally reflected outwards. 

 The surface is pure white and polished. 



The external markings of the valve are very beautiful, — the anterior area is 

 ornamented by about sixty close and sharp concentric stri» diverging from the 

 dorsal margin. A narrow radiating area enlarging from the beaks towards 

 the base, occupies the anterior portion of the body and is closely covered with 

 a series of beautiful minute grooves, which define the boundary-line of the an- 

 terior area by their junction almost at right angles with its striie, these fine 

 grooves, when viewed with a microscope, are found to be decussated by still 

 finer lines. Posteriorly, to this area, the grooves diverge into rather distant 

 slight concentric arches gradually vanishing towards the posterior auricle, the 

 commencement of which is defined by a line, occasionally obsolete. The auri- 

 cle is generally smooth, but occasionally with confluent raised granules or 

 points. The whole surface is white and polished when devoid, as it usually is, 

 of its thin olivaceous epidermis. 



The pallets are somewhat spoon-shaped in outline with a truncate apex. One 

 side is convex and plain, whilst the other is concave, with a raised mid-rib, 

 which, becoming more prominent towards the base, merges into the stalk, 

 which is slender, cylindrical, or flexuous, and about as long as the blade. 



The tube is not much contorted, but generally slightly flexuous, narrow, 

 tapering, polished externally, solid in texture and rather easily detached from 

 its burrow. It is semi-concamerated at its lower end, divided by ten or twelve 

 crowded, thin, orbicular partitions, which, however, leave a large oval orifice 

 in the centre. 



1862.] 




472 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Dimensions. — Length of valves half an inch ; breadth somewhat less. Length 

 of tube about one foot ; but individuals have occurred in which the tube is 

 two and one-half feet long and the valves three-fourths of an inch. 



Mr. Jeffreys considers the T. corniformis of Lamarck to be the tube of 

 this species, which is very probable, and I have therefore placed that species 

 among the synonyms of Norvagica. 



The present shell is the T. na valis of all British authors prior to Forbes 

 and Hanley's MoUusca, the confusion of the species originating in the misera- 

 ble description of the Syst. Naturae, which will apply equally well to any spe- 

 cies of the genus, and continued, i^robably, from the difficulty of procuring ex- 

 tensive suites of specimens, and from the uninviting nature of their study. 



The figures of DeKay are copied from Turton, and therefore represent this 

 shell and not the true T. u a v a 1 i s. 



The illustrations in Donovan and Pultney will suit equally well for this or 

 either of the other British Teredse. 



T. nigra, Blainville, is considered by Messrs. Fischer and Jeffreys to be a 

 synonym of Norvagica, and not having seen specimens, I have followed 

 them in including it here, but as it appears to me that the original description 

 does not exactly suit Norvagica, I reproduce it here. 



"Coquille assez grande, de quatre it cinq lignes dehaut sur autant de long, 

 epaisse, solide, entierement couverte d'un epiderme noir ; cote posterieur ou 

 trauchant fortement anguleux et striae au moius de soixant stries tres-serrees, 

 surtout sur la partie verticale ; pallets ovales, alongees, non-tronquees. 



Cette grande espece de taret, dont je possede un individu envoye par Mile. 

 Warn aM. DeFrance, a etc trouvee sur les cotes d'Angleterre, dans la earcasse 

 d'un navire venant de I'lnde et echoue depuis long-temps tl quelque distance, 

 du rivage. Elle est parfaitement distinct par sa taille, sa couleur, et par le 

 nombre considerable de ses stries. 



T. pedicellata, Quatrefages. 



T. p edi eel la t us, Quatrefages, Ann. des Sc. Phys. 3J ser. xi. p. 2-3, t. 

 1, f. 2. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 333. 



T. pedicell at a, Fischer, Jouru. Coachyl. 2d ser. i. p. 139. Jeffreys, 

 Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 3d ser. vi. p. 123. 



Hah. — Islands in the British channel and Northern Coast of Spain and Al- 

 giers. 



Description. — " Coquille subspherique a peu pres aussi longue que large ; 

 angle antcrieur presque droit (90°), tombant fort en arriere. Stries tres-fines 

 et tres uombreuses. Palmules etroites, allongees, portces a I'extremite d'une 

 sorte de manche d'apparence cartilagineuse. Le pcdicule est toujours blane, 

 tandisqueles palettes sent colorces en bron fonce. Taille inferieure de moiti4 

 environ a celle du Ter. Norvagica." — Fischer. 



" Altliough the valves in adult specimens bear a close resemblance to those 

 of the following species, (T. marina) the pallets are unmistakably different ; 

 and in the young the striae on the anterior auricle of the valves are much 

 fewer, and consequently more remote than in that species. VVhere both spe- 

 cies occur together, the present occupies the outer layers of the wood, while 

 the other penetrates into its recesses. Quatrefages discovered this species at 

 Guibuscoa, on the North coast of Spain ; and I noticed it in some wood which 

 M. Deshayes had taken on the Algeriue coast. The tube is a beautiful object, 

 being jointed in an imbricated manner, like the stalk of au equisetitm.^' — /./- 

 freys. 



T. Senega lensis, Blainville. 



T. Senegalensis, Blainville, Diet, des So. Nat. lii. p. 2i)7. Jeffreys, 

 Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 31 ser. vi. p. 126. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 333 



[Sept! 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4/o 



Taret du Senegal. Adanson, Hist. Nat. du Senegal, p. 264. t. 19. Adanson, 

 Mem. de I'Acad. des Sc. 1759, p. 278, t. 9, f. 9, 10. 



Ilab. — In Mangrove roots. Coast of Senegal. 



Description. — "Coquille un pen plus grosse, plus evidemment rhomboidale, 

 ou a. quatre cotes obliques. Le bord tranchant stiie devingt-cing stries denti- 

 culees. Pallets en spatule tronquee et non bicornee. Cette espece, qui est in- 

 dubitablement distincte du taret commun, quoiqu '11 soit assez difficile de la 

 caracterisee completement, a cause du peu de details dans lesqnels Adanson 

 est entre a son sujet, est fort commune dans les racines des mangliers qui 

 bordent les fleuves Niger et de Gambie. Elle les perce verticalement, quel- 

 quefois a deux ou trois pieds ; mais ordinairement a six pouces au dessus de 

 terre." — Blainville. 



T. truncata, Quatrefages. 



T. truncata, Quatrefages, Ann. des Sc. Nat., 3d ser., xi. p. 27. Adams, 

 Genera, ii. p. 333. Fischer, Journ. Conch., 2d ser., i. p. 133. Jeffreys, 

 Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 3d ser., vi. p. 126. 



Uah. — Amboina, Quoy et Gaimard. 



JJescription. — " Coquille fragile, presque spherique, fortement echancrce et 

 anguleuse a son bord anterieur ; Tangle anterieur est de 90° environ, son 

 sommet se trouve place assez en arriere, et ses bords paraissent plus rectilignes 

 que dans la plupart des autres especes. Stries de I'oreillette anterieure assez 

 irregulieres, si ce n'est vers les bords ; palettes pediculees, tricuspides, ob- 

 liquement taillees en biseau de dehors en dedans." — Fischer. 



Quatrefages' Description is " testa fragili, quasi sphserica, alte 



emarjinatii ; emarginatione 90 gradibus hiante ; palmulis pedicellatis, in ob- 

 liquum truncatus, tridenticulatis." 



Subgenus Calobates, Gould. 



Calobates, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., viii. p. 280, Feb., 1862. Gould, 

 Otia Conchologica, p. 241, 1862. 

 Description. — "Pallets stilt-shaped, bony. Type T. thoracites, Gould." 

 I owe to the kindness of the author, an opportunity to examine specimens 

 of the valves of this interesting shell, and also a sketch of the pallets. The 

 latter ai-e indeed very remarkable, and indicate very clearly a subgeueric, if 

 not generic distinction, from Tekedo. A more particular description of them 

 is contained in that of the species. 



T, thoracites, Gould. 



T. thoracites, Gould,. Bost. Proc, vi. p. 15. Gould, Otia Conchologica. 

 p. 222, 241. 



Hah. — Burmah. 



Description. — "Shell large, solid, length and breadth about equal; valves 

 trifoliolate, the anterior area or leaf being very large proportionally, or about 

 equal to the fang-like body, excepting that it is truncated anteriorly, where it is 

 smooth, shining and callous. This anterior area is obtusely lance-pointed and 

 sculptured with concentric striae parallel to its basal edge, and with a few 

 delicate cracks or rugae radiating from the beaks ; the fang-like body is large 

 and broad, obtuse at point, and armed within by a firm rib, terminating in a 

 rounded ivory knob ; a strong flattened ridge tra-verses its posterior extremity, 

 running from the junction of the posterior wing above to the point of the fang ; 

 anterior to this the fang is grooved parallel to the anterior edge; while pos- 

 terior to it they take the direction of the inferior edge of the wmg, and be- 

 come gradually more and more recurved towards the point, and are continued 

 on to the ridge. The posterior dorsal wing is very small and lunate, not 

 rising above the beaks, gently arched, scarcely projecting beyond the poste- 

 rior margin of the fang, its lower margin would correspond with the lower 



1862.J 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



margin of the anterior area if continued ; tlie superior margin is rough and 

 bonj-, forming a broad area defined by a sliarp crested ridge, and emarginated 

 at the junction of the wing. Hinge tubercles large, with a hook-shaped pro- 

 cess from each, by which the valves are interlocked ; the wing is formed by a 

 sharp shell-like ridge, and is smooth and slightly excavated. The cavity of 

 the beak is filled with a spongy calcareous matter, from which issues the del- 

 icate and flattened subumbonal process which presents its flat side to the 

 valve, and at about one-third its length forms a decided elbow backwards. 



Length from before backwards | inch ; from above downwards a little less. 



Pallettes very large and long, stilt-shaped ; the style long and subulate, 

 slightly flexuous, bony, surrounded by a broad dilatation or step, concave on 

 one side and convex on the other ; its upper surface deeply excavated, on this 

 is placed the blade, which is three-fourths as long as the style, thin, linear, 

 obliquely truncated at tips, about one-third the width of the step. 



Length of style 7-lOths ; of blade 4-lOths inch. 



Brought by Rev. F. Mason and Rev. J. Benjamin from Tavoy. 



In size and solidity this exceeds all the species yet described, it is chiefly 

 distinguished by the great size of the anterior triangular portion when com- 

 pared with the posterior alar portion or auricle. 



The form of the pallettes also is entirely difi'erent from any yet described ; 

 nor do I find any mention elsewhere of the spongy calcareous growth in the 

 umbonal cavity." — Gould. 



Genus UPEROTIS, Guettard. 



Upeeotis, Guettard, Memoirs, ii. p. 128. Adams, Genera, iL p. 333. 



Gueiera, Gray, Syn. Brit. Mus., 1842. Gray, Zool. Proc, p. 188, 1847. Gray, 



Ann. and Mag, Nat. Hist., 2d ser., viii. p. 381. 

 Serpnla, (part.) Mawe, Conch., p. 194. 

 Fistulana, (part.) Blainville, Diet. Sc. Nat., xvii. p. 82. Bosc. Hist. Coq., ii. 



p. 203. Griffith, Cuvier Regne Anim., sii. p. 124. Guerin, Iconog. 



Reg. Anim. Moll., t. 33. Hanley, Desc. Cat., p. 3. Lamarck, Anim. 



sans. Vert., v. p. 432; id. 2d edit., vi. p. 25. Potiez et Michand, Gal- 



lerie des Moll., ii. p. 272. Schroter, Einleit, ii. Walch, Natiirf., x. 



p. 38. 

 Teredo, (part.) Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 2. Cuvier, Regne Anim., edit. 



Audouin Moll., p. 252. Deshayes, Traite Elem., pt. ii. p. 47. De- 



shayes. Note in 2d edit., Lamarck, Anim. sans. Vert., vi. p. 39. Dill- 



wyn, Desc. Cat., p. 10b7. Gray, Phil. Mag., 1827, p. 409. Jay, Cat., 



4th edit., p. 9. Wood, Index Test., t. 38. 

 Dr. Gray includes in his genus Gitetera, besides the U. clava, two other 

 specimens, which he names: — 



G. lagenuala? this = CucurbituIa cymbia, Spengler (GASTROCH^- 



NID^). 

 G. corniformis, this = tube of Teredo Norvagica, Spengler. 



U. clava, Gmelin, sp. 



Teredo clava, Gmelin, Syst. Nat., p. 3748. Dillwvn, Desc. Cat., p. 1090. 



Grav, Phil. Mag., 1827, p. 410. Guettard, Mem., iii. t. 7, f. 6—9. 



Wood, Index Test,, t. 38, f. 4. 

 Giietera clava. Gray, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 2d ser., viii. p. 386. 

 U. clava, Adams, Genera, ii. p. 333. 

 Fistulana rjregata, Lamarck, Anim. sans. Vert., v. p. 435 ; ditto, 2d edit., vi. 



p. 31. Bosc, Hist. Coq., ii. p. 204. Encyc. Meth., t. 1(57, f. (5—14. 



Griffith, Cuv. Reg. Anim., xii. t. 8, f. 3. Guerin, Iconog. Reg. Anim. 



Moll., t. 33, f. 3. Hanley, Desc. Cat., p. 3. Potiez et Michaud, Gal- 



lerie des Moll., ii. p. 272. Schroter, Einleit., iL p. 574, t. 6, f. 20. 



Walch, Naturforsch., x. p. 38, t. 1, f. 9, 10. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPniA. 475 



Teredo gregata, Deshayes, Note in 2d edit. Lam, Ann. sans. Vert., vi. p. 39. 



Fistulana gregaria, Blainville, Diet. Sc. Nat., p. 83. 



Serpula retorta, Mawe, Conch., t. 34, f. 5. 



Teredo nucivonis, Spengler, Skrivt. Nat., ii. pt. 1, p. 105, t. 2, f. d. Catlow, 

 Conch. Nomenc, p. 3. Cavier, Regne Anim., ed, Audouin, t. 114, f. 4. 

 Deshayes, Traite Elem., t. 2, f. 15—18. Dillwyn, Disc. Cat., p. 1090. 

 Jay, Catalogue, 4th edit., p. 9. 



Ilab. — Tranquebar, Pondichery, etc.* 



Coll. Acad. Nat, Sciences. 



Description. — Valves covered by a brown epidermis, solid in texture, very 

 convex, narrow, being two and one-half times longer than their width ; in 

 this respect differing very much from the other species of the family. Ante- 

 rior auricle extending about one-third the total length, with its basal margin 

 very oblique and long, and its dorsal margin short and declining ; lateral an- 

 terior side sharply angulated by the junction of the dorsal and basal martins. 

 Posterior auricle very small, consisting of a mere triangular lateral swelling 

 of the margin, appearing in some specimens like a tooth. Beaks very narrow, 

 much raised, and tuberculate. 



Internally the fang is deeply and narrowly channelled from the beaks to 

 the ventral tubercle. Apophysis very oblique, curved, turning to the poste- 

 rior side. Anterior to the central channel the substance of the valve is much 

 thinner. 



Externally the anterior area is marked by a few rather coarse concentric 

 strise. Anterior to the centre of the fang and opposed to the internal channel 

 is a corresponding longitudinal raised rib, which is rather closely transversely 

 striated ; posterior to the rib the surface is nearly smooth, with the exception 

 of a few longitudinal strise, visible on the posterior shoulder. 



Length |- inch ; breadth not quite g-th inch. 



Pallets about ^ inch in length, the blade exceeding the style ; blade spoon- 

 shaped, concave on one side, convex on the other, and thickened on the con- 

 vex side to a little above the middle, whence it is depressed to the tip ; the 

 depressed area is covered with elegant ribs which radiate to all parts of the 

 upper margin, causing it to be toothed. 



Tubes singularly contorted and twisted upon themselves, a mass of them 



frequently growing together, they are of a light brown or yellowish red color, 



and very solid, rapidly acuminating from the rounded base to the upper end. 



Length four inches ; breadth at base three-fourths of an inch, at tip hall 



as much. 



Genus XYLOTRYA, Leach. 



Xylotrya, Leach, MSS. (subgeniis.) Adams, Genera, ii. p, 333. Gray, Zool. 

 Proc. p. 188, 1847. Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 3^1. 

 .Jeffreys, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 3d ser. vi. p. 125. Menke, Syn. 

 Mefh,, 1830. Sowerby, Hlust. Brit. Shells, 



Xijlotrya, Quatrefages, Ann. des Sc. Nat. 3d ser. xi. p. 28. 



Bankia, Gray. 



Teredo, (part.) Blainville, Diet. Sc. Nat. Hi. p. 259. Blainville, Malacol. p. 

 579. Bosc, Hist. Coq, ii. p. 197. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 2, Chenu, 

 Man. ii. p. 12. Cuvier, Regne Anim. edit. Griffith, xii. p. 123. Delle 

 Chiaje, Mem. iv. Deshayes, Encyc. Meth. p. 1002. Fischer, Journ. 

 Conchyl. 2d ser. i, Forbes and Hanley, Brit, Moll, i. p. 58. Hanley, 

 Desc. Cat. p. 3. Home, Phil. Trans., 1806. Lamarck, Anim. Sans. 

 Vert. edit. 1, v. p. 438; et edit, 2, vi. p. 35. Lamarck, Syst., 1801. 

 Philippi, Enum. Moll. Sicil. i. p. 2, et ii. p. 3. Spengler, Skrivt. Nat. 

 ii, pt. 1. Schumacher, Essai d'un Nov. Syst. Thompson, Ann. and 

 Mag. Nat. Hist., 1847. Turton, Conch, dithyra, p. 13. 



* The specimen in Coll. A, N. S. is marked " St. Croix, W. I.," d lubfless a mistake 



1862.] 




476 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



X. BiPEXNATA, Turton. 



X. BirENXATA, Turton, Concli. Diet. p. 184, f. 38 — 40. Turton, Conch, ditli- 

 Brit. p. If). Brown, Conch. Gt. Brit. p. 116. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. 

 p. 2. Fischer, Jouru. Conchyl. 2d ser. i. p. 257. Fleming, Brit. Anim. 

 p. 454. Gray, Phil. Mag., 1827, p. 411. Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 4, t. 9, 

 f. 50. Hanley, Brit. Mollusca, i. p. 80, t. 1, f. 9—11. Jeffreys, Ann. 

 and Mag. N'at. Hist. 3d ser. vi. p. 126. Quatrefages, Ann. des So. Nat. 

 3d ser. xi. p. 30. Thorpe, Brit. Mar. Conch, p. 28. 

 X. pennatifera, (part.) Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 386. 

 X. carinata, Leach, Adams, Genera, ii. p. 333. 



T. carinata, Leach, Blainville, Diet. Se. Nat. lii. p. 269. Catlow, Conch. 

 Nomenc. p. 3. Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. 

 p. 368. 

 T. carinata, Blainville, Fischer, Journ. Conchyl. 2d ser. i. p. 256. 

 T. carinata, Gray, Phil. Mag., 1827, p. 411. Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 4. 

 T. navalis, Home, Philos. Trans., 1806, p. 276. Home, Comparit. Anat. ii. 



t. 43. 

 liab. — England (b i p e n n a t a), a doubtful native. Sumatra (carinata). 

 Coll. Acad. Nat. Sciences. 



Descri])tion. — " Valves with the body or medial portion narrow and elong- 

 ated. Auricle tipically projecting higher than the beaks ; its upper internal 

 edge most strongly reflected outwards ; the lower internal edge scarcely slop- 

 ing, and projecting shelf-fashion over the body. Triangular area extending 

 as low down as the auricle, not large, its outer edge very oblique ; tooth-like 

 apophysis greatly slanting posteriorwards. Pallets very large, quill-shaped, 

 of a spongy texture. 



The sliape of the valves is very different from that of Norvagica or 

 Batava, the medial portion being decidedly more elongated, and the lower 

 end of the auricle slightly more remote from the ventral tubercle than is that 

 of the front triangle. This latter occupies less than two-fifths of an imaginary 

 line drawn from the beaks to the base of the shell, and is concentrically tra- 

 versed by raised strije, or narrow lyra?, which are moderately close-set, and 

 not much arcuated below, but more distant and more curved towards the com- 

 mencement of the series. These are succeeded by another set of minutely 

 decussated striae, which occupy the narrow strip situated between the lateral 

 triangle and the internal radiating groove, and are produced thence along the 

 front margin of the shell. Then follows a still narrower strip, which, together 

 with the preceding, is elevated towards the beaks above the remainder of the 

 surface, covered with very oblique, distant, raised concentric striae, often with 

 finer intermediate ones, which, after passing the central, shallow, groove-like, 

 radiating area, are more or less distinctly continued over the remainder of the 

 surface as far as the auricle. This latter, which is smooth, small, and ear- 

 shaped, projects at its upper part above the summit of the beak, and is inter- 

 nally cut off as it were from the body of the shell by its lower edge, which, 

 almost straight and scarcely declining, projects like a ledge over the subum- 

 bonal region. Its basal line is thus almost at right angles to the hinder mar- 

 gin, whilst its much arcuated posterior outline runs nearly jiarallel to the base 

 of the lateral triangle. This ear-shaped appendage is also most strongly 

 reflected outwards, and is internally rather closely grooved with concentric 

 costellse ; its hinder termination is attenuately rounded, and its front extrem- 

 ity is iu the adiilt concavely, in the young subreetilinearly, more or less ob- 

 liquely subtruneated. 



The entire shell is white and faintly glossy ; there is an extremely oblique 

 lamina surmounted by a tooth-like process iipon the hinge margin, running 

 at acute angles to the very oblique and flat subumbonal blade, which latter is 

 clavate, and in the most perfect specimens we have met with either tubercu- 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 477 



lated or jagged at its edge near its termination. Both the posterior and ante- 

 rior edges of the valves, which are inclined to solidity, are rectilinear, the 

 front being nearly perpendicular, the hinder much more oblique ; but in the 

 young these sides are rather more parallel, and the central, or linguiform por- 

 tion of the shell, much more narrow. The ventral apex is narrow, but not 

 acute, and its internal tubercle rather broad and compressed. The pallets are 

 very curious, and of a sponge-like look and color. They are remarkably large, 

 in some measure resemble a quill in shape, are usually more or less curved, 

 and have their stalk or unbarbed portion most minutely tuberculated. The 

 upper portion, which is usually about one-half of the entire length, and even 

 at its broadest part scarcely wider than the stalk, is closely articulated ; the 

 upper and concave edge of each joint terminating at either extremity in an 

 ascending filament, is adorned on one side with a very fine fringe of similar 

 but more minute filaments. The joints towards the extremity appear in the 

 few specimens we have seen to lose their lateral filament, and the concavity 

 of the upper edges so increases as to form a decided angle near their middle. 



The tube, which we hare not seen ourselves, is declared by Dr. Turton to 

 be thicker and stronger than that of Norvagica, and simple in its outer 

 orifice ; and by Mr. Gray (1827) to be not concamerated. The diameter of the 

 valves, from which our description was drawn up, is about four-sevenths of an 

 inch, whilst the pallets are actually three inches in length, and about two 

 inches broad at the widest part. 



These dimensions, however, especially that of the pallet, are greatly ex- 

 ceeded in the Sumatran examples, from whence we may reasonably conclude 

 that that country is in all possibility its native habitat. Specimens are ex- 

 tremely rare." — Forbes ^' Hartley. 



Mr. Jeffreys remarks that "this species requires further investigation, be- 

 cause of the similarity of its valves to those of T. malleolus, and of its 

 pallets to those of T. pennatifera. The former, however, appear to pre- 

 sent a difference in being more arched and solid than in T. malleolus, with 

 the anterior auricle larger and having more striae, as well as in the posterior 

 auricle being usually smaller ; and the latter in having a shorter and much 

 thicker stalk than in T. pennatifera, which is not annular or tracheiform as 

 in that species, as well as in the lateral filaments being shorter and le?^ 

 slender." 



X. cucullata, Norman. 



X. cucTillata, Norman, MSS. Jeffreys, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 3d 

 ser. vi. p. 125. 



Bab. — In drift fir wood at Guernsey : in teak, with T. fimbriataat Belfast. 



Description. — " Tube long, thick, not easily detached from the wood, inter- 

 nally wrinkled near the opening. Valves roundish-oval, rather convex ; 

 body marked transversely, but regularly, with a few striaj or impressed lines ; 

 anterior auricle small, angle obtuse, striae numerous ; posterior auricle dila- 

 ted and appressed, having its apex nearly on a level with the crown or umbo 

 of the valve, inner edge free and overlapping the body ; fang broad ; tubercle 

 small ; apophysis sickle-shaped. Pallets composed of 20-30 calciform points 

 or cuculli, which are broad on the outer surface, and slightly overlap one 

 another in succession, lateral edges setaceous, with short filaments ; stalks 

 cylindrical, of same length as pallet. Dimensions : length (of valves) 8-20'; 

 l>readth 6-20''. 



"The pallets resemble those of T. minima, Blainville (T. palmnlata, 

 Philippi) in having the front margin quite plain ; but they differ in the joints 

 being of nearly equal breadth, and (especially in the earlier stage of growth) 

 being much more numerous and compact. 



" The pallets of T. e u c u 1 1 a t a are also three or four times as long as those 

 of T. minima. The tub-^ and valves of each species are easily distinguish- 

 able. ' ' — Jeffreys. 

 1862.] 33 




478 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



X. fimbriata, JeSreys. 



X. fimbriata, Jeffreys, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 3d. ser. vi. p. 126. 



X. palmulata,'^ Forbes and Hanley, British Mollusca, i. p. 86, t. 2, f. 9-11. 

 Stimpson, Check-List, No. 249. Sowerby, Illust. of Brit. Shells, 1. 1, f. 6. 



T. hipaJmulata, Thompson, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 1S47. 



Hab. — A doubtful inhabitant of the British coast. 



Description. — The shell of this species differs so little from that of T. n a v a- 

 l i s, that it is diiBcult to find any important distinctive characters in the valves 

 alone. They appear, however, to be always much smaller than in navalis, 

 and the external surface is not so highly polished ; the overlapping ledge 

 which internally marks the line of the posterior auricle is more elevated. 

 The valves | inch in length. " The pallets, which are extremely fragile, 

 and never attain to any considerable dimensions, closely resemble diminutive 

 specimens of those ofbipennata. They vary much with age and circum- 

 stances in regard to the number of articulations, their closeness or laxity of 

 approach to each other, and even in their individual shapes. In the smaller 

 specimens, (and almost all hitherto taken in our seas belong to this class, not 

 exceeding half an inch in length,) the stem resembles a piece of fine thread, 

 and is about equally long with the broader pennated portion which sur- 

 mounts it. This latter is composed of numerous somewhat triangular pieces, 

 of which the narrower end is jointed as it were to the broader opposite ex- 

 tremity of the preceding one, which is more or less deeply incurved in the 

 middle, and has, in consequence, its lateral terminations more or less strongly 

 forked. The basal articulation is often peculiarly graceful in shape, the lat- 

 eral outline being formed by two convex lines of corresponding curve on either 

 side. The number of these joints may average about a dozen, some appa- 

 rently having only eight distinct ones, whilst others, (chiefly the larger) have 

 nearly twice that number. The articulated portion is usually about three 

 times as broad as the stalk, and tapers towards its termination, where the 

 joints likewise are smaller and more closely set. In the larger pallets, where 

 the articulations are more remote from each other, their forked extremities, 

 instead of embracing (as in the young) the succeeding joint, project on either 

 side beyond the narrow bases, so as to cause the lateral edges to appear ser- 

 rated ; in certain specimens, where the joints are peculiarly distant, and their 

 subtrigonal forms have become in consequence less distinct, these forked ter- 

 minations are produced in narrow filaments, and the central concavities are 

 clothed with a more or less fringed membrane, which in some measvire con- 

 ceals the depth of incurvation. . . None of the valves we have seen at all equal 

 the dimensions of our three first species, (Norvagica, marina, malleo- 

 lus,) and the longest pallet was under two inches in length. 



The tube was concamerated in Mr. Clark's examples (Exmouth) in the 

 cabinet of Mr. Jeffrey ; we confess, however, we perceived no indication of 

 such structure in the very small perforations of the Irish specimens ; in 

 both, the testaceous matter was sparingly deposited." — Hanlpi/. 



X. minima , Blainville, sp. 



T. minima, Blainville, Diet, des Sc. Nat. Hi. p. 263. Fischer, Journ. 

 Conchvl. 2d ser. i. p. 256. Jeffreys, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 3d ser. 

 vi. p. 127. 

 T. bipalmulata, Delle Chiaje, Mem. iv. p. 28, t. 54, f. 18, 22. 23, 24. 

 T. palmulata, Philippi, Enum. Moll. Sicil. i. p. 3, ii. p. 2, t. 1, f. S. 

 T. serratus, Deshayes, Mss. 

 T. Philippii, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 3S6. Fischer, 



.lourn. Conchyl. 2d ser. i. p. 257. 

 X. Philippii, Adams, Genera, ii. p. 333. 



* This is net the T. p a ! m n 1 a t a of Lamarck or Philippi. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 479 



Hab. — Mediterranean Sea. 



Description. — " Coquille a pen pres semblable a cells de T. navalis maiis 

 plus petite, a peu pres aussi haute que large ; oreillette auterieure portant 

 plus de soixante stries ; oreillette postt-rieure moins abaissee que chez le T. 

 navalis. 



" Palettes courtes, ressemblant a un petit epi d'orge formees de huit a dix 

 godet? courts, comprimes, imbriques, denticules a leur bord inferieur et le plus 

 souvent noiratres. Epines lattrales peu developpees. Pedicule cylindrique, 

 grele, blanc, un peu plus long que la palette. 



" Observ. — Cette charmant espece n'attient jamais de grandes dimensions, 

 mais ses ravages n'en sont pas moins redoutables; car elle abonde dans les 

 lieux ou elle vit." — Fischer, desc. of T. Philippii. 



Fisclier separates Philippii from minima, and remarks that the latter is 

 described from a young shell. Jeffreys unites the two, giving the preference 

 to Blainville's name, as the oldest which is not pre-occupied. 



X. minima is thus described in Journ. Conchyl. p. 256. 



" Coquille extremement petite, a peu pres aussi haute que large ; oreillette 

 et zone anterieures plus grandes que les posterieures ; stries trea nombreuses, 

 presque egalement, serrees et espacees sur les deux cOtes de Tangle anterieur. 



"Palettes portees sur un tres-long pedicule et formees de douze articula- 

 tions en godets, non epineuses sur les cOtes." — Fischer. 



X. palmulata, Lamarck (sp.). 



Teredo palmulata, Lamarck, Anim. sans. Vert. v. p. 440; id. 2d edit, 

 vi. p. 38. Blainville, Man. Malacol. t. SO, bis, f. 8. Catlow, Conch. 

 Nomenc. p. 3. Chenu, Man. Conchyl. ii. f. 64, 65. Cuvier, Regne 

 Anim. edit. Griffith, xii. t. 7, f. 5. Ferussac, Encyc. Meth. p. 10^4. 

 Fischer. Journ. Conchyl. 2d ser. i. p. 254. Ilanley, Desc. Cat. p. 4, 

 t. 11, f.' 13. Quatrefages, An. des Sc. Nat. 2d ser. xi. p. 29. 

 X. palmulata, Adams, Grenera, ii. p. 333, t. 90, f. 6e. 

 X. bip aim IX lata, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 386. 

 T. bipalmulata, Lamarck, Syst. Anim. sans. Vert. p. 129. Bosc, Hist. 

 Coq. ii. p. 202. Gray, Phil. Mag., 1827, p. 410. 

 Taret de Pondich^ri, Adanson, Mem. Acad, des Sc, 1759, p. 278, t. 9, f. 12. 

 Hab. — East Indies. 



Description. — The valves and tubes of this species are unknown, and but 

 two specimens of the pallets exist in European collections ; from one of these 

 pallets (that in the Jardin des Plantes) Lamarck's description is taken,* which 

 in fulness of detail and accuracy is scarcely inferior to the description of T. 

 navalis, by Linnaeus. 



The pallets are quite large, the blade composed of twenty or more triangu- 

 lar joints, which are attenuated laterally into sharp projecting points. The 

 stalks are somewhat shorter than the pallets, moderately thick, rounded, and 

 about one-third the widtli of the blade. Total length about one inch. 



Mr. Jeffreys remarks that they are "allied to the pallets of T. b i p e n n a t a, 

 although evidently distinct." 



This species is not the T. palmulata of Forbes and Hanley, nor of 

 Philippi. 



X. pennatifera, Blainville (sp.) 



Teredo pennatifera, Blainville, Diet, des Sc. Nat. Hi. p. 269. 



X. pennatifera, Adams, Genera, ii. p. 333. Jeffreys, Ann. and Mag. Nat. 



Hist. 3d ser. vi. p. 126. 

 X. pennatifera. (part.) Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. 



p. 386. 



* '•!'. palamlis Imgiusoulig, pimatociliatis. subartioulatis." — Lam. 



18 62. J 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



X. palmulata, Leach, teste Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 

 386. 



Hab. — England, floating wood on the coast of Guernsey (a doubtful native); 

 and at Cherbourg, France. 



Description, — "CoquiUe assez petite et mince, ecliancree tr<;s anguleusemeut 

 en avant, finement multistriee ; palmules extremement considerable?, huit ou 

 dix fois plus longues que les valves, composees d'un grand nombre d'articu- 

 lations, pourvous de chaque cote d'un long cil, et postees sur uu long pedicule 

 ce qui les fait ressembler a une pennatule. 



" Cette jolie espece, qui existe dans la collection du Museum Britan- 



nique, vient les mers de I'Inde. 



"Les palmules pourroient etre aisement prises, au premier aspect, pourdes 

 pennatules fort elegantes ; elles different beaucoup par leur grandeur, et par 

 leur forme de celles du taret des Indes de M. de Lamarck, (palmulata. 

 Lam) . ' ' — Blainville. 



X. Stutchburyi, Leach (sp.). 



T. Stutchburyi, Leach, Blainville, Diet. Sc. Nat. lii. p. 268. Fischer, 

 Journ. Conchyl. 2d ser. i. p. 255. Jeffreys, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 

 3d ser. vi. p. 127. Quatrefages, Ann. des Sc. Nat. 3d ser. xi. p. 28. 

 X. Stutchburyi, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d. ser. viii. p. 386. 

 Adams, Genera, ii. p. 333. 



T. campanulata, Deshayes, Mss., Brit. Mus. 



T. navalis, Spengler, Skrivt. Nat. ii. p. 100, t. 2, f. 1 — 3. Schumacher, 

 Essai d'un Nov. Syst. p. 94. 



Hah. — Sumatra. 



Description. — "Coquille sensiblement moins longue que large ; valves fort 

 minces ; angle anterieur obtus (115 — 120°) ; oreillette anterieure courte, 

 chargee de stries tres-fines et tres nombreuses ; oreillette posterieure assez 

 marquee, mais moins saillante que dans les Ter. palmulata et bipennata. 



' ' Palettes assez courtes, a pedicules tres courts, formees par des godets en 

 partie comes et demi-transparents, diminuant graduellement du pedoncule au 

 sommet de la palette. Le bord iuferieur des godets est epaissi et semble 

 frange, quand I'indindu est fraichement recueilli ou conserve dans I'alcool. 

 Les godets sont legurement comprimes, assez profouds ; chacun d'eux adhere 

 au bord inferieur de celui qui le precede par un court pedicule. 



Ohs. — Tres-bonne espece, bien caracterisee par des godets triangulaires, sans 

 epines laterales. Les differentes descriptions que Ton a fait des coquilles, 

 different par plusit urs points essentiels, et il ne serait pas etonnant qu'il y 

 eut quelques especes a palettes articulees semblables et a coquilles differentes, 

 comme nous I'avons constate cliez les Tarets u palettes simples." — Fischer. 



Subfamily 2. TEREDININ^, Tryon. 

 TEREDININiE, Tryon, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. p. 65, 1862. 

 Genus TEREDINA, Lamarck. 

 (Fossil.) 

 Subfamily 3. KUPHIN/E, Tryon. 

 Teredina, (part.). Gray, Zool. Proc. 1847, p. 188. 

 Teredinina, (part.). Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 386. 



Genus KUPHUS, Guettard. 



CuPHUs, Guettard, Mem. iii. p. 139. Grav, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. 

 viiL p. 381. 



KuPHCS, Gray, Syn. Br. Mus. 1840. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 648. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 481 



Kyphuf, Agassiz. 



Furcella, Lamarck, Syst. p. 104, 1801, note. Gray, Zool. Proc. pt. 25, p. 243 

 and pt. 26, p. 258. Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 3d ser. i. p. 295 ; 

 and ii. p. 374. Menke, Synops. Meth. edit. 2, p. 122. Oken. ZooL 



Septaria, Larmarck, Anim. sans. Vert. v. p. 43G ; id. edit. 2, vi. p. 32. 

 Anton, Versuch. p. 1. Blainville, Diet. ISc. Nat. xxxii. p. 362. Blain- 

 ville, MalacoL p. 581. Deshayes, Traite Elem. i. pt. ii. p. 40. De- 

 shayes, Encyc. Meth. iii. p. 246. Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 3. Latreille, 

 Fam. Nat. Potiez et Michaud, Gallerie, ii. p. 271. Rang. Man. p. 349. 

 Schweigg, Natiirg. 1820, p. 601. Sowerby, Conch. Man. ed. 2, p. 255. 

 Voigt, Cuv. Thierr. iii. p. 570. 



Septana, Fisch. Bibl. Pal. 1834, p. 273, error typ. 



Lepiana, Gray, Ann. and Mag. N. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 386, error typ. 



Teredo, (part.), Adams, Genera, ii. p. 333. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 2. 

 Deshaves, Note in Lam. Anim. s. Vert. edit. 2, vi. p. 39. Fischer, 

 Journ.* Conchyl. 2d ser. i. p. 132. Home, Philos. Trans. 1806, p. 276. 

 Home, Anat. Comparit. Jay, Cat. 4th edit. p. 9. Wood, Index Test, 

 t. 38. 



Serpvla, (part.), Linnsus, Syst. Nat. edit. 10, p. 787 ; and edit. 12, p. 1266. 

 Linnaeus, Mus. Ulric. p. 700. Gmelin, Syst. Nat. p. 3739. Hanley, 

 Shells of Linn. p. 446. Pallas, Spicil. Zool. p. 140. Schroter, Einleit. ii. 



Solen, (part.), Hebenstr. p. 295. Humphrey, Conch. Klein, De Tub. p. 3. 

 Lesser, Conch, p. 139. Rumphius, Mas. 



Clausaria, Menke, Syn. Meth. edit. 1, 1828. 



K. arenarius, Linn. sp. 



SerpuJa arena ri a, Linnaeus, Syst. Nat. ed. 10, p. 787. Linnaeus, Mus. 



Ulric. p. 700. Hanley, Shells of Linnaeus, p. 447. Pallas, Spicil. Zool, 



p. 140. 

 Solen arenariu s, Rumphius, Mus. t. 41, f. d. e, Klein, De Tub. p. 3. 



Hebenstr. p. 295. 

 Septaria a r e n a r i a, Lamarck, Anim. sans. Vert. v. p. 437 ; ed. 2, vi. p. 33. 



Deshayes, Traite Elem. i. pt. 2, p. 44. Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 3. Potiez 



et Michaud, Gallerie des Moll. ii. p. 271. 

 Leptana arenaria, Lamarck, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. 



p. 386, (typo, error.) 

 Teredo arenaria, Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 2. Gray, Phil. Mag. 1827, 



p. 410. Jay, Catalogue, 4th edit. p. 9. 

 Teredo arenarius, Deshayes, Note in Lam. Anim. sans Vert. 2d ed. vi. 



p. 39. 

 Cupfius arenarius, Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d ser. viii. p. 386. 

 Kuphus arenarius, Adams, Genera, ii. p. 648. 

 Serpula gigantea, Schroter, Einl. ii. p. 557. 

 Septaria gigantea, Chenu, Man. de Conchyl. ii. f. 67. 

 Furcella gigantea. Gray, Zool. Proc. pt.^5, p. 243, t. 39, f. 1—3 ; id. pt. 26, 



p. 258 ; id. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 3d ser. p. 295 ; andii. p. 374. 

 Teredo gigantea, Home, Philos. Trans. 1806, p. 276, t. 10 ; and 11, f. 1—7. 



Home, Anat. Comparit. ii. t. 41. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 333. Dillwyn, 



Desc. Cat. p. 1087. Fischer, Journ. Conchyl. 2d ser. i. p. 132. Wood, 



Index Test. t. 38, f. 1. 

 Serpula polythalamia, Linnaeus. Syst. Nat. ed. 12, p. 1266. Gmelin, Syst. 



Nat. p. 3742. Hanley, Shells of Linnaeus, p. 446. Schroter, Einleit. 



ii. p. 549. 

 Solen corrugatus, Klein, De Tub. p. 5. Lesser, Conch, p. 139. 

 Serpula anguina, Var. B. Gmelin, Syst. Nat. p. 3743. 



Martini, Conch. Cat. 1, p. 40 and 45, t. 1, f. 6, 11. 

 Davilla, Cat. Syst. p. 97, 102. 

 Seba, Mus. iii. t. 94. 



1862.] 34 




482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Hah. — Philippine Islands, Van Dieman's Land, East Indies. 



Coll. Acad. Nat. Sciences. 



Dacription. — Valves wanting. Tube contorted somewhat, gradually in- 

 creasing in diameter to the base, and growing to the length of three feet. 

 The siphonal end is divided into two internal tubes by a transverse partition. 

 External surface roughened, by its contact during growth with surrounding 

 objects, and exhibiting impressions of pebbles, shells, &c. Diameter at base 

 one and a half inch inches, at siphonal end, three-quarters inch. Base 

 rounded, "closed by two overlapping, convex septa, arising from the sides 

 and completely closing the ends. The tube is thickened above as the animal 

 leaves it, and is much thinner near the lower or closed extremity, ' '* just around 

 which are scattered small perforations for the admission of water to the 

 animal. 



Pallets about one inch or more in length, the stalk gradually increasing 

 into a triangular blade, the end of which is truncate on one side and two- 

 horned on the other side. 



Oct. Ith. 

 Dr. Ruschenberger in the Chair. 

 Eighteen members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 Monograph of the prehensile-tailed Quadrumana. By J. H. Slack, 

 M. D. 



Mr. Kilvington gave an account of his attempts at cultivating a number of 

 living plants brought by Dr. Hayes from the Arctic region and presented to 

 the Academy. Notwithstanding great care, he had failed in developing the 

 plants to any extent. Though kept in the coolest places, yet the high tem- 

 perature of our latitude appeared to destroy all after budding and the seeds 

 after germinating. The young plants and seeds were planted in the original 

 soil which accompanied them. They began to perish when the temperature 

 reached bQ" F. 



Oct. Uth, 

 Mr. Cassin in the Chair. 



Nine members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 



Description of a new species of Cephalopod. By W. M. Gabb. 



Oct. 2lsi. 

 Vice-President Vaux in the Chair. 

 Seventeen members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 On the Limits and Affinity of the Family of Leptoscopoids, and On 

 the Classification of the Squali of California. By Theo. Gill. 



Oct. 2Sth. 

 Vice-President Vaux in the Chair. 

 Fourteen members present. 



[Oct. 




Proc. Acad. Nal Sci 



Ibliotsoii, on stcme 



T Sinclair's Jitk I 



OMMASTREPHES TRYONII. gabb. 





NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 483 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published in the Proceedings : 



Bescription of a new species of CEFHALOPOD from the Coast of 

 California. 



BY W. M. GABB. 



Ommastrephes Tryonii. — Body large, subcylindrical for about two-thirds of 

 its length, posterior third tapering, acute at the extremity. Fins between one- 

 third and one-fourth the length of the body, nearly twice as broad as long, 

 rhoraboidal; angles rounded. Anterior of the body truncated at a right angle 

 to the length and with a slight angle on the dorsal median line. Siphon short 

 broad, head small, not wider than the body, flattened above (and at the sides ?) 

 Eyes small. Sessile arms robust, short, compressed : comparative length 4, 2, 

 1, 3, the dorsal being the shortest, although they are all of nearly equal length. 

 The second and third pair are so compressed that the caps appear to be ar- 

 ranged in a single line. The lower half or two-thirds of the outer side of the 

 dorsal and the whole of the same portion of the other arms are fringed with a 

 narrow membrane. The inner side of the third pair is also fringed on each 

 side of the cupules. 



The cupules are all small, but the bordering rows of teeth are well marked. 

 Tentacular arms compressed, very little longer than the longest pair of sessile 

 Arms. Cupules arranged on the distal two-fifths, largest in the middle, be- 

 coming very small towards each end. Mouth small, the surrounding membrane 

 without cupules, with a bifurcating process between the dorsal pair of arms 

 and one extending to each of the other sessile arms. Surface flesh colored, 

 covered with small dots, sparsely placed on the lower side and pinkish ; on 

 the back these dots are nearly black and placed close together so as to pro- 

 duce a mottled appearance. Between the back and sides there is a well marked 

 lighter band extending from the edge of the fins to the anterior end of thp 

 body. 



Shell narrow, pointed in front and tapering backwards regularly, except 

 the last half inch which is dilated into the usual slipper-like process. 



Length of body 5-5 in.; circumference 3 in.; length of fin 1-8.; width of fia 

 3-4 in. ; length of head -8 in.; breadth (about) -9 in. ; length of longest ses- 

 sile arm 2-1.; length of shortest 1-5 in. ; length of tentacular arm 2-5 in.; length, 

 of siphon (about) -5 in. 



Locality. Coast of California ? 



The specimen was presented to me by Dr. W. 0. Ayres, of San Francisco, 

 and was found in a lot of salt, most probably from near Point Conception. 

 The colors are well pre.served, but the specimen is so soft after relaxation that 

 the exact form of the head cannot be determined. 



It resembles sagittata, d'Orb., in both external form and the shape of the 

 shell. It diflfers from that species, however, in the much shorter tentacular 

 arms and the broader fin. The shell, which is pointed in nearly the same 

 manner anteriorly, tapers regularly, while in d'Orbigny's species it is suddenly 

 constricted. 



On the Classification of the Families and Genera of the SQUALI of 

 California. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



In continuing at intervals the study of the Elasmobranchiate Fishes, T have 

 felt obliged to modify several portions of the classification of the Squali that 

 have been adopted in the " Analytical Synopsis of the order," from previous 

 1862.] 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



laborers on that group. Happily those families whose arrangement moat re- 

 quires modification are represented by species found along the coasts of Cali- 

 fornia. I therefore, submit through the medium of a classification of those 

 species, some of the changes which appear to be necessitated in the present state 

 of our knowledge. 



Order SQUALI {lliiWer et Henle) Agaasiz. 



Suborder SQUALI Gill. 



Squalidse veri Bonaparte, Selachorum Tabula Analytica, p. 4,n833. 



Pectoral fins produced directly outwards, or carved backwards from the an- 

 terior basal angle. 



Caudal fin heterocercal and with a more or less developed inferior lobe pro- 

 current forwards beneath the vertebral column. 



Family GALEORHINOID^ Gill, 



Les Squales sp. Cuvier, Regne Animal, tome ii. p. 123, &c., 1817. 



Squalids, ( (16) Squalini, (19) Trisenodontini) Bonaparte^ Selacborom Tabula 



Analytica, p. 5- 

 Carcharia part. ~j 

 Trisenodonteg | 



(jaiei ^ Mailer and HenUj Systematiscbe Beschreibung der Plagi- 



Scylliodontea I ostomen, pp. 28, 55—57, 63, 64. 



Musteli j 



Nictitantes Owen, Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, vol. ii. p. 51, 1846. 



Carcharida ) Richardson, Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. xii. (Ichthyology) p. 



Galeid* / 323. 



Carchariodei I S;ee^er,Enumeratio Specierum Piscium bucusque in Archipelago 



Galeoidei \ Indico Observatoruro, &c.j pp. 11, 12. 



Galeorhinoidse GUI, Analytical Synopsis of the Order of Squali, pp. 29, 30, 33. 



Body elongated, suTixiylindricalj gradually tapering towards the caudal fin. 



Scales minute, more or less rhomboid and imbricated, and generally stir- 

 mounted by longitodinal keels. 



Head more or less depressed and plane, oblong, semi- elliptical or conicabove, 

 with the snout projecting on the plane of the bead, witk its margin thin, more 

 or less rounded, and declining obliquely backwards to the mouth. 



Eyes lateral^ submedian or anterior, with the nictitating membrane dis- 

 tinct. 



MoBth inferior, large and arched in front. 



Teeth compressed ^witb trenchant and entire or serrated edges (Oakorhinince,y 

 cr smail and paved. 



Nostrils inferior, and near the sides of the snout ; simple and generally 

 with a Jriaagular flap from the anterior or inner border. 



Spiracles, obsolete or developed. 



Branchial apertures five, the liast of which are smaSl, and above the base of 

 the pectoral fin. 



Dorsal fins two ; each is curved towards the anterior angle which is roonded 

 and more or less projecting, especially that of the first fin, while the posterior 

 im»le is acHtely produced backwards. First dorsal large and situated more 

 or tess in advance of the ventral fins ; second moderate or small, and above or- 

 nearly above tlie anal fin. 



Anal fin generally similar to the second dorsal in fonn and size, ronnded at 

 its anterior angle, and acutely produced behind. 



Caudal fin decidedly heterocercal; the upper or vertebral lobe moderately 

 elongated and abruptly curved upwards and backwards, and with the mem- 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 485 



brane notched at its inferior margin near the end and forming a triangular 

 lobe ; the inferior or basal lobe is moderate or small. 



Pectoral fins more or less falciform, rounded at the external angle, and with 

 the posterior margio subtruncated or sinuated and incurved to the inner angle 

 which is also rounded. 



Ventral fins inserted more or less behind the middle, oblong or trapezoidal, 

 rounded at the anterior angle and acute at the posterior. 



The family of the Galeorhinoidae as it has been now circumscribed, appears to 

 be a very natural group, all the types included therein agreeing in physiognomy 

 and general form, and for the most part diflfering from each other in details of 

 secondary value. The only characteristics of greater than generic value are the 

 more marked peculiarities of dentition, and the presence or absence of spiracles. 

 Miiller and Henle have attached much importance to such characters, and have 

 regarded them as distinguishing five families. As, however, none of those 

 characters are co-ordinate with others, the value assigned to them by those 

 biologists appears to be much greater than they merit, and scarcely even suffi- 

 cient to base subfamilies upon. The most important and trenchant variation 

 in the family is found in the dentition of the genus JIusielus as opposed to that of 

 all the other types. The latter may therefore be combined in one subfamily, 

 while Mustelus can be regarded as the type of a second one. The typical sub- 

 family of the Galeorhinince is then subdivisable into four minor groups equiva- 

 lent to families of MuUer and Henle, and only characterized by the various 

 combination of two characters. The following synoptical view will facilitate 

 the recognition of the several groups. 



I. Teeth compressed and trenchant Galeoehisix.s. 



A. Spiracles obsolete in adults. 



Teeth without lateral prongs Cynocephali. 



Teeth with one or two lateral prongs on each side Triaenodontes. 



B. Spiracles developed. 



Teeth with lateral prongs Scylliodontes. 



Teeth without lateral denticles Galeorhini. 



II. Teeth flat and paved MnsTEUS.E. 



Subfamily GALEORHlXIXiE Gill. 

 Traenodon'ini \^°^^P'^^^^i Selachorum Tabula Analytica, p. 5. 

 Caschariae pp. ") 



Triaenodontes ( MiiUer and Henle, Systematische Beschreibung der Plagistomen, 

 Galei f pp. 28, 55, 57, 63. 



Scylliodontes J 

 Squaliana pt. ") 



Leptochariana I Gray, List of the Specimens of Fishes in the Collection of the 

 Galeiana [ British Museum, part 1, Chondropterygii, pp. 40, 51, 52, 55. 



Triakiana J 

 Galeorhininae Gill, Analytical Synopsis of the Order of Squali, pp. 33,35. 



Teeth compressed and cultrate, smooth or serrated and with or withont 

 lateral denticles. 



Spiracles obsolete or of small size. 



Group SCYLLIODON'TES Muller and Henle. 

 "Scylliodontes Muller and Henle, Systematische Beschreibung der Plagios- 



tomen, p. 63. 

 Scylliodontidae Girard, Explorations and Surveys for a Railroad Route, &c., 



vol. X. Fishes, p. 362. 



Teeth scyllioid, or each one with one or two prongs on each side of the large 

 central pointed one. 



1862.] 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Spiracles of small size, developed. 



To this group are now referred two genera. 



Genus RHINOTRIACIS Gill. 



Body compressed, elongated and subfuaiform in profile. 

 Scales tricarinated. 



Head oblong, with the snout produced, oblong and attenuated towards the 

 transversely rounded apex. 

 Eyes rather small. 



Mouth moderate and boldly arched in front. The groves at the corners are 

 well defined and the upper lip folds over the lower. 

 Teeth with an acute median prong and a smaller lateral one on each side. 

 Nostrils nearer the mouth than the front of the snout, obliquely transverse 

 and with a wide convex flap arising from the anterior or inner border of each 

 aperture. 



Dorsal fins nearly similar in form, obliquely produced upwards towards the 

 anterior angle, which is rounded ; acutely produced backwards from the 

 posterior angle; the first dorsal is intermediate between the pectoral and ven- 

 tral fins. 



Anal fin similar to the second dorsal. 



Caudal fin with a terminal triangular lobe, and with the membrane above the 

 vertebral column moderately developed; inferior lobe scarcely produced down- 

 wards from the anterior angle. 



Pectoral fin moderate, extensible partly under the first dorsal, rounded at each 

 angle and subtruncated behind. 



Ventral fins trapezoid, rounded at the external angle. 



Rhinotriacis is very closely related to Triads, but is separable from that genus 

 on account of the produced snout, the position of the first dorsal fin and per- 

 haps the greater development of the pectoral fins. It has a superficial resem- 

 blance to the genus Isoplagiodon of the group of Galeorhini produced by the 

 situation of the first dorsal fin and the elongation of the snout, as well as its 

 color, but the dentition, the presence of spiracles as well as the form and rela- 

 tive position of the fins at once distinguish it. 



The only known representative of this genus is Californian ; a single young 

 specimen of the species was sent to the Smithsonian Institution by Mr. Samuel 

 Hubbard, and referred to as a species with the aspect of IsojAagiodon immediately 

 after the Triads semifasciatus. It differs from the species of Triads in color as 

 well as morphological characters, being uniform reddish-brown above, and 

 greyish-white below, with which color the pectoral, ventral and anal fins are 

 also margined. 



Rhinotriacis henlei Gill. 

 (The following table of measurements will suffice for the identification of the 

 species. It is hoped that older specimens may be obtained in time to prepare 

 a complete description for a work on the Fishes of Western America. The umbi- 

 lical cord of the specimen noticed has entirely disappeared. 



The base of each fin is considered as being on a level with the body ; the 

 height is measured in an oblique direction parallel with the axis of cleavage of 

 the fin ; the greatest breadth is parallel with the base or terminal margin, and 

 crosses obliquely the line of cleavage. 

 Extreme length d\. 



Body — Greatest height 10; greatest width 6; height of tail behind anus 4; 

 least height of tail 2^. 



Head — Greatest length 18 ; greatest width 12 ; height of snout T§. 

 Eye — Diameter 4 | ; distance from snout 9. 



Mouth — Width 6^ ; depth from symphysis of jaw to line between corners of 

 mouth 3. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



Dorsal — Distance from snout 30 ; length of base 10 ; length of horizontal 

 ''posterior" margin 4^ ; greatest oblique height 9; (second) distance from 

 snout 58 ; length of base 8 ; length of posterior (horizontal) margin 3^ ; greatest 

 (oblique) height 7. 



Anal — Distance from snout 61 ; length of base 6 ; greatest height 4 ; height 

 behind to point SJ. 



Caudal — Length 23 ; length of inferior lobe 15; oblique height of lobe near 

 front 5 ; oblique height at end 1 J ; greatest height of terminal lobe 3j. 



Pectoral — Greatest length 12i ; length within internal border 9 ; greatest 

 width 8^. 



Ventral — Distance from snout 33 ; greatest length (from base to inside of outer 

 angle) 5^ ; length within internal border 4 ; greatest width 0. 



Genus TRIACIS Muller and Henle. 



Triakis Muller et Henle, Magazine of Natural History, vol. ii. 1833. 



" Bonaparte, Selachorum Tabula Analjtica, 1838. 

 " Mailer et Henle, Systematische Beschreibung de Plagiostomen. 

 " Girard, Explorations and Surveys for a Railroad Route, &c., vol. x. 

 Fishes, p. 362. 



Body compressed, elongated and scarcely subfusiform in profile. 



Scales provided with three keels producing a tridigitate margin. 



Head scarcely oblong, with the snout short and transverse, the anterior mar- 

 gin being arched or convex. 



Eyes rather small, and nearly above the angles of the mouth. 



Mouth large and transversely arched. The groove at each corner of the 

 mouth is very sharply defined, and the upper lip folds over the angle of the 

 lower. 



Teeth with a large acute median prong, and two smaller oblique ones on 

 each side ; the unpaired symphiseal tooth is symmetrical. 



Nostrils nearer the mouth than the front of the snout, transverse and with a 

 wide convex flap arising from the anterior (inner) border. 



Dorsal fins similar in form, obliquely produced towards the anterior angle 

 which is rounded; acutely elongated from the posterior angle ; the first fin is 

 rather nearer the ventrals than the pectorals ; the second is smaller and partly 

 in advance of anal. 



Anal fin similar to second dorsal. 



Caudal fin with a terminal triangular lobe, and with the membrane above the 

 vertebral column moderately developed ; inferior lobe obsolete or scarcely pro- 

 duced downwards and obtuse. 



Pectoral fin rather small, rounded at each angle, not extending beyond the 

 front margin of first dorsal. 



Ventral fins trapezoidal, rounded at the external angle. 



Type. — Triads scylliura M. and //. , 



Two species of this genus are known ; Triads semifasciatus Girard, from 

 California ; Triads scyllium Muller and Henle from Japan. 



Triacis semifasciatus Girard.* 

 Triakis semifasciatus Girard, Proc. Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila., vol. 



vii. p. 196, 1854. 

 Mustelus felis Ayres, Proc. California Academy of Natural Sciences, part 1, p. 



17, 1854. 



* The following name probably belongs to the eynonymy of Triads semifasciatus. but as it haa 

 never been joinoii to a description, the suggestion c;in be only verified by one having access to the 

 British Museum. It is scarcely necessary to iidd that such a verification will not at all influence 

 the nomenclature of the species, the name being a worthless synonym by default of descriptiou. 



Triakis cii.lifornica Gray, List of Specimens of fish, in the Collection of the liritish Museum, 

 part 1, ChoTnlropterygii, p. 56, 1851. 



1862.] 




488 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Triakis seraifasciatus Girard, explorations and Surveys for a Railroad Route, &c . 

 vol. X. Fishes, p. 362. 



Family UETERODONTOID.^ Gill. 



Snnali <? i ^"^*^'"> R'egae Animal, tome ii. 1817. 



Cestracioates Ar/assiz, Poissons Fossiles, tome ii. 1833. 



Squalid* verae (Cestracionini) Bonaparte, Selachiorum Tabula Analytica, p. 5, 



1838. 

 Squalidae (Centrininae) Swaimon, Natural History of Fishes, &c., vol. ii. p. 



1839. 

 Ceatraciontes Muller and Henle, Systematische Beschreiburg der Plagiostomen, 



p. "76, 1841. 

 Cestraciones MuUer, Arc. 1, 1317, 1845. 

 Cestraciontidae Owen, Lectures on the Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of 



the Vertebrate Animals, p. 51, 1846. 

 Squalidae (Heterodontina) Gray, List of the Specimens of Fish in British Mu- 

 seum. Chondropterygii, p. — , 1857. 

 Cestraciontoidae Sleeker, Systematis Piscium Naturalis Tentamen. 

 Heterodontoidae Gill, Analytical Synopsis of the Order of Squall, p. 29, 30. 37, 



1862. 

 Squalidae (Cestraciontini) Bonaparte, Syst. Vert. 



Body elongated and obtusely trihedral, gradually tapering from the anal re- 

 gion towards the caudal fin. 

 Scales very small. 



Head high, with the forehead declivous and the snout little prominent. 

 Eyes lateral, but very high on the sides ; nictitating membrane obsolete. 

 Mouth subterminal but inferior and more or less arched in front. 

 Teeth in front compressed and trenchant or digitated, on the sides arranged 

 in whorls, paved and adapted for grinding. 

 Nostrils continued backwards to the mouth. 

 Spiracles small. 



Branchial apertures five, moderate or small; the last above the base of the 

 pectoral fin. 



Dorsal fins two, each well developed and with a spine enveloped in the front 

 of its margin; the anterior angle of each is rounded, and the posterior acute; 

 the first fia above the interval between the pectoral and ventral fins; the second 

 more or less behind the ventral fins, and remote from the caudal. 



Anal fin small or moderate, below or behind the second dorsal fin, and re- 

 mote from the caudal ; the anterior angle is rounded but produced, and the pos- 

 terior blunt. 



Caudal fin heterocercal ; the upper lobe moderate and with its under edge 

 notched and lobed nearer the end, and with the portion above the ventral 

 column enlarged ; the lower lobe is small or moderate. 



Pectoral fins normally developed, with each angle rounded, but towards the 

 anterior produced. 



Ventral fins moderate, inserted nearer the head than the tail, with each angle 

 obtuse. 



The characters of the family of Heterodontoids as here exposed are derived 

 almost entirely from our knowledge of the species living at the present day. 

 The earliest known living representative of the family, the Port Jackson shark, 

 has become celebrated on account of the views of Aga8siz,by whomit was con- 

 sidered as the type and sole existing representative of a family rich in peculiar 

 genera and species at former epochs of the world's history. That naturalist 

 bas proposed to refer to the family of Cestraciontes, numerous vestiges of the 

 representatives of the order of Squali, found in every formation from the earli- 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



est period down to our owa days. These vestiges are almost solely the more or 

 less complete remains of teeth and spiaes. It is therefore by no means demon- 

 strated that all such remains are indications of the pertinence of the species of 

 which they are the witnesses, to the present family. All these remains require 

 to be re-examined with reference to the present views held by naturalists re- 

 garding the nature of families. Such an examination will doubtless result in 

 the disseverment of some of the genera known from such remains, from the 

 family of Heterodontoids. 



That family of Heterodontoids as now restricted, is distinguished among all 

 the others representatives of the order by the peculiar form of the body and 

 head. While in all the other recent sharks, the head is depressed and the 

 snout above nearly parallel or on the same plane with the upper surface of the 

 head, in the Heterodontoids, the head is elevated, the sides vertically expanded 

 and the snout deflected downwards. The teeth form another very characteristic 

 feature, those towards the front being incisorial or digitated, while those on the 

 ' sides are molar and arranged in oblique whorls. Each dorsal is in fi-ont provi- 

 ded with a spine mostly enveloped in its substance, but with its point exposed. 

 The simple teleological adaptation of the teeth of the ancient representatives 

 of the Squall and their concurrence with spines have been the cause of the 

 reference of those remains to the Cestracionts or Heterodontoids. 



There are now known four living species of the family of Heterodontoids 

 which appear to belong to three distinct genera, chiefly separated on account of 

 the modifications of dentition, and the size of the branchial apertures. The 

 several may be briefly distinguished by the following characters : 



I. Branchial region higher than long, the slits being elongated.. Heterodontus. 



II. Branchial region longer than high, slits little elongated. 



et. Molar teeth rounded and carinated along the middle. Dor- 

 sals little produced towards the anterior angle Tropidodus.* 



/?. Molar teeth flat and closely contiguous. Dorsals produced 



backwards to the anterior angle Gyropleurodus. 



Genus GYROPLEURODUS Gill. 



Cestracion sp. Girard. 

 Heterodontus sp. Gill. 



Gyropleurodus Gill^ Proc. Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila., vol. xiv. p, 

 330, July (Sep.), 1862. 



Body triquetrous in front, behind the anus attenuated and compressed towards 

 the caudal fin. 



Head short and high, broad, but with subvertical sides, with the forehead 

 very declivous from eyes, and with the snout wide and transverse, but promi- 

 nent. Two blunt diverging ridges are continued from each side of the snout 

 and abruptly merge into the more conspicuous superciliary ridges, the interval 

 between which is nearly plane. Inferior surface of head plane. 



Eyes entirely lateral, protected above by the superciliary ridge. 



Mouth inferior, but near the front, with the cleft semi-elliptical but externally 

 transverse and simply arched in front. The branches of the jaws are separated 

 by an ovate-triangular space, wide and rounded in front and thence curved out- 

 wards to the angles. 



Teeth in front digitated with three or five cusps, quincuncially distributed in 

 rows slightly converging towards the middle; in the upper jaw on the sides, 

 molars oblong and flattened, arranged in about four oblique whorls, uniform 

 or increasing backwards, except the last, which is smallest. On the sides of 



* With this genus I am only acquainted through the figure and description of Valenciennes, 

 who descrihes its type as the Cestracion panthcrinus in the Ichthyology of the Venus, Voyage 

 autour du monde sur le fregate la Venus, Zoologie, p. 350. Ichthyologit, pi. x. fig. 2. 



1862.] 




490 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



the lower jaw also molars oblong, with flattened crowns, and arranged n 

 transversely oblique whorls, but decreasing backwards. 



Upper lip narrow, emarginated in the middle, and with a median furrow; 

 lower lip obsolete at middle, and developed laterally as a transverse flap, 

 covered at the angle of the mouth by a duplicature or flap above. 



Nostrils with a broad flap on the internal side, separated by a furrow from 

 the lip, and with a roll of skin curled inwards on the external side. 



Branchial apertures five, small and regularly decreasing in size, the bran- 

 chial region being longer than high. 



Dorsal fins rather large, similar in form, but first rather larger than second; 

 each with a large compressed trihedral spine enveloped in the front margin, 

 but separated partly by a slit and groove from the rest of the fin ; the latter is 

 recurved backwards towards the "anterior angle," which projects about as far 

 behind as the posterior. 



The present genus is an interesting addition to the living representatives of 

 the ancient family of Heterodontoids, to which it belongs. It decidedly differs ' 

 from Ileterodontus* in the development of the jaws, dentition and the size of the 

 branchial apertures. In the latter genus, the branches of the lower jaw are at 

 first contiguous and diverge from each other at an acute angle, while in front 

 of the oblique whorls of molars and between the acute teeth of the front, 

 which encroach on the sides, a cordifoim area exists. The lateral or molar 

 teeth are numerous and arranged in oblique whorls, which rapidly increase in 

 size to the fifth, behind which they again decrease. The branchial apertures 

 are also comparatively large, the first being longer than the length of the bran- 

 chial region. In Gi/ropleurodus, the branches of the lower jaw are widely sepa- 

 rated by an interval rounded in front and becoming wider behind, the sides 

 themselves being curved outwards ; the acute teeth are confined to the front, 

 and the molar teeth are few and disposed in about four whorls, the first three 

 of which slightly decrease, while the fourth is almost rudimentary. The bran- 

 chial area is also almost oblong. There will be few, I think, who will not at 

 once admit the value of these characters and allow their generic importance. 

 Upon difi'ereuces of much less value, many acknowledged genera of Squali have 

 already been established. 



The genus Tropidodus, established for the reception of the Cestracion panthe- 

 rirMs of Valenciennes, differs from Gi/ropleurodus, at least in the keeled and 

 rounded molar teeth of the sides of the jaw, and the smaller dorsal fins, the 

 anterior angles of which project comparatively little backwards.} 



Gyropleurodus fr.\ncisci Gill ex Girard. 



Cestracion francisci Girard, Proc. Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila., vol. 



vii. p. 196, 1854. 

 Cestracion francisci Girard, Explorations and Surveys for a Railroad Route, &c., 



vol. X. Fishes, p. 365. 

 Ileterodontus francisci Gill, American Journal of Science and Art, ser. 2, vol. 



XXX. p. 281, 1860. 

 Gyropleurodus francisci Gill, Proc. Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila., 



vol. xiv. p. 330, 1862. 

 (On account of the interest attached to the representatives of the family of 

 Heterodontoids, the following extended description of Gi/ropleurodus francisci is 

 submitted.) 



* The fciUowing is the diafjnosis of the genus HeUrodotitiis, published by Blainville: 



C. Heierodontus, Car. Dent, heteioclitis ; Insj). nuUis: P. S. [Pinnis superioribus Tel dorsalibus.j 

 2 ut in prcEcedenti ; P. A. magna: P. C. fer6 ut in prwced. 



Spec. Philippi. 



f " Le bouche n'est pas trfes-large, elle parte en arant cinq a six rangs de pcHites dents aigues, 

 ayant S. la base deux petits talons 6pineux, puis vionnent sur les cotes de.s machoires six ranges de 

 molaires arrondies et car6n6es sur le milieu."— ra?ena<.7!«es. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



Form. — The body is triquetrous in front, declining from the dorsal ridge to 

 th? sides of the plane abdomen. The greatest height equals an eighth (-12) of 

 the total length from the snout to the vertical from the end of the caudal fin. 

 The greatest breadth is a fourth greater (= -15) than the height. Behind the 

 anus and ventral fins the tail becomes abruptly slender and compressed, the 

 height entering fourteen times (= -07) in the length and about twice as high 

 as at the base of the caudal {= "OSf). The back in front of the dorsal gently 

 declines and meets the forehead, from which it is separated by a slight groove, 

 and is itself furrowed in the middle. 



Read. — The head from the snout to the branchial region forms more than a 

 sixth (iTjJ) of the length. The height at the forehead equals -lOj, and at the 

 margin of the superciliary ridge a ninth ('ll) of the total length. The width 

 between the external margins of the superciliary ridge nearly equals a twelfth 

 (08) of the same length, and the greatest width at the cheeks is nearly twice 

 as great (= -15). The forehead or interorbital area is nearly plane between 

 the superciliary ridges or scarcely convex along the middle. The superciliary 

 ridges are blunt, very hard, angulated and obliquely truncated behind, and 

 incurved inwards ; they merge into the widening but less conspicuous ridges 

 in front, which are continued to the snout, where they are separated by a shal- 

 low furrow and a slight depression ; the rest of the profile is channelled. The 

 cheeks are very tumid. 



Eyes. — The eyes are oval ; the longitudinal diameter between the skin about 

 equals a sixth (-03) of the head's length, and that of the outer ring a fourth 

 (•04J). The distance from the snout equals a half (-09) of the head's length. 



Mouth. — The mouth is transverse, the margin of the lower jaw describing the 

 three sides of a nearly regular octagon, and the distance from one corner to the 

 other equals a twelfth (-08) of the total length, and four-fifths of the width 

 of the head at the same vertical. The patch of teeth encroaching on the out- 

 side of that jaw is transversely fusiform. 



Teeth in front of each jaw digitated, with a median cusp and two on each 

 side, which become lateral and directed outwards on teeth next to the symphy- 

 sis ; they are arranged in five rather oblique rows, each row in the upper jaw 

 having six on each side of the symphyseal ones, and in the lower, four. The 

 area with molar teeth equals in length the width between the lower lips. 



Fins. — The first dorsal originates at the vertical from the beginning of the 

 last third of the base of the pectoral fin, or near the front of the second fourth 

 of the total length (27^). Its attached base nearly equals a twelfth (-OS) of the 

 same length, and the free-extension backwards to the posterior angle a sixteenth 

 (06). The spine is rectilinear, rather exceeds a tenth of the length, and its 

 compressed base forms half of the base of the fin itself. The margin of the 

 fin describes a parabolic curve backwards to the " anterior angle," which is 

 obliquely rounded and projects rather farther backwards than the " posterior 

 angle;" the latter is little acute, and the margin between it and the anterior is 

 vertical and little emarginated. The greatest (oblique) height rather exceeds 

 an eighth (-13) of the total length. 



The second dorsal is similar in form to the first, but less elevated in propor- 

 tion, and with the anterior angle not extending beyond the posterior, and the 

 emargination deeper. The distance from the snout exceeds a half ("54) of the 

 total length, and that from the posterior angle of the first dorsal equals the 

 base of that fin to such angle. Its base equals about a fourteenth ("OTJ) of 

 the length, and the posterior angle extends nearly a nineteenth (-05^) more 

 behind. The spine is rather more oblique than that of the first dorsal ; its 

 base forms two-thirds of that of the entire fin, and its length equals a tenth of 

 the total. The greatest (oblique) height of the fin equals a ninth (-11) of the 

 total length. 



The anal fin commences at the middle between the sixth and seventh-tenths 

 (•65) of the length, or rather in advance of the posterior angle of the second 



1862.] 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



dorsal; it is directed very obliquely backwards and passes slightly beyond the 

 base of the caudal; its greatest (oblique) height rather exceeds a ninth of the 

 length, and its base equals about a twentieth ; the anterior angle is broadly 

 rounded and passes much beyond the posterior; the (oblique) height behind 

 equals the base, or a twentieth of the length. 



The caudal fin is bent obliquely upwards, and its (oblique) length nearly 

 equals a fourth (-24) of the total; the vertebral column is regularly attenuated 

 and disappears near the truncated posterior margin ; the elevation above the 

 lower boundary of the column is slightly greater behind the middle of the fin, 

 and equals almost a twentieth of the total length. The greatest height or 

 width of the upper caudal lobe, just before its vertically truncated end, is rather 

 less than a tenth (-09^) of the length ; its angles are rounded ; the distance from 

 the base of the lower lobe to its upper angle enters about five times and two- 

 thirds ("17^) in the length ; the posterior margin is slightly oblique and emar- 

 ginated ; the upper angle extends rather beyond the lower; the greatest depth 

 (or width) in front of the angles is rather more than a tenth (•lOj) of the length. 



The pectoral fin is subtriangular ; the outer margin is first curved and thence 

 is produced in nearly a straight line outwards and backwards to the external 

 angle; the posterior border is nearly straight and scarcely more produced to- 

 wards the exterior than the inner angle ; the latter is more broadly rounded 

 than the outer; the distance from the front of the base to the outer angle is 

 little less than a quarter of the length (-24^), and a fourth greater than the 

 distance from the same point to the margin outside of the inner angle (= "18), 

 or the width of the fin before the angles ("-18). The fin extends almost as far 

 backwards as the posterior angle of the first dorsal. 



The ventral fins originate at the beginning of the second-fifth (-40) of the 

 total length and considerably behind the vertical from the "anterior angle" of 

 the first dorsal; they are oblong, quadrangular, slightly overlapping towards 

 the middle of the inner borders, slightly emarginated and with the angles 

 equally rounded ; the length equals an eighth of the total and the greatest 

 breadth almost an eleventh. 



Scales. — The scales are more or less cruciform or shaped like a Greek cross, 

 and often with each end divided. They are rather small, there being about 

 forty oblique rows beneath the attached base of the first dorsal fin. Those on 

 the inferior surface of the body and of the pectoral and ventral fins, as well as 

 the anal and caudal, are polished and more or less cordiform. 



Color. — The color is brownish, varigated with sparsely-scattered, small black 

 spots on the entire body and fins. 



Family NOTIDANOIDjE Owen ex M. and H. 



Les Squales partim | ^^^. ^ ^^j^^j ^^^^ ii_ ^23 (128), 1817. 



Squalus ) 



Squalidae vera; (Notidiani) Bonaparte, Selachorum Tabula Analytica, p. 4, 1838. 

 Notidani Mutter and Henle, Systematische Beschriebung der Plagiostomen, p. 80. 

 Squalidae (Hexanchina) Gray, List of Species of Fish in British Museum. 



Chondropterygii, p. 40, 67, 1851. 

 Notidanidae Owen, Comparative Anatomy of the Vertebrated Animals, vol. i. p. 



51. 1846. 

 Notidanoidei Bleeker, Systematis Piscium Naturalis Tentamen. 

 Notidanoidae Gill, Analytical Synopsis of the Order of Squall, p. 33 : ib. in 

 Annals of the Lyceum of Nat. Hist, of N. Y, vol. vii. p. 404 . 



Body elongated, somewhat depressed before, tapering towards the caudal fin. 



Scales minute and generally pointed and traversed by one or three keels. 

 Lateral line present on each side of the back. 



Head depressed, oblong and semi-oval or semi-elliptical above, with the 

 snout projecting, indicated by more or less distinct constriction at the anal 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 498 



region, with its margin rounded, and thence declining very obliquely back- 

 wards to the mouth. 



Eyes submedian or anterior, without nictitant membranes. 



Mouth inferior, ample and arched in front. 



Teeth in the lower jaw compressed, transverse and acutely multicuspid ; in 

 the upper dissimilar. 



Nostrils inferior, provided at the upper front or margin with a small flap. 



Spiracles, small. 



Branchial apertures all in advance of and dissimilar in size to the pectoral 

 fins; in the known species there are six or seven on each side. 



Dorsal fin single, angulated and produced toward the anterior angle, acute 

 at the posterior above or in advance of the anal ; first obsolete. 



Anal fin present, similar in form to the dorsal. 



Caudal fin heterocercal ; the vertebral lobe is moderately elongated, and has 

 beneath near its end a small triangular lobe ; the inferior basal lobe is mode- 

 rate or small. 



Pectoral fins moderately developed, rounded at each end produced towards 

 the external. 



Ventral fins normally developed, inserted as near or nearer the head than the 

 tail, rounded at the anterior and acute at the posterior or inner angle. 



The family of the Notidamids is distinguished from all others of the order by 

 the absence of the first dorsal fin. The increased number of branchial aper- 

 tures, the dentition, common to all of its known species, and the form of the 

 head and body support the claims of the group to family rank. The situation 

 of the branchial apertures in front of the pectoral fins recalls a character of the 

 Lamnoidte, a family including the Porbeagle, great white shark and basking 

 shark. 



Genus NOTORHYNCHUS, Ayres. 



Notorhynchus Ayres, Proc. California Academy of Natural Sciences, vol. i. p. 



72, 1855. 

 Heptanchus, s^. Miiller and Henle, Gray^ Girard, Gill. 



Body depressed over abdomen, thence becoming subcylindrical and taper- 

 ing backwards. 



Dorsal line conspicuous. 



Head oblong, depressed and ovoid above, with the snout wide, and with its 

 periphery transversely rounded, but more or less constricted at the nasal 

 region, and very prominent. 



Eyes moderate, over or in advance of the middle of the side of the jaws. 



Nostrils at horizon of eyes, more or less in advance of mouth, oblique and 

 with a small triangular flap on the hioder margin. 



Teeth of the upper jaw chiefly developed at the front on each side of the 

 symphysis (2 — 3) simple, acute and curved outwards, or rectilinear with the 

 bases increasing outwards as the teeth severally recede from the symphysis, 

 first (1 — 2) assuming a smaller external pointed cusp and thence becoming still 

 wider and pectinated on their obliquely declining margins on the outer side 

 of the greater cusp ; those at and near angle formed by the front and side of 

 jaw bone serrated, and one or two small cusps on the inner ascending margin 

 of the greater one ; teeth of the laterals of the jaw rather abruptly decrease in 

 size. Teeth of the lower jaw uniform, broader, each obliquely diminishing in 

 height outwards, digitated by oblique cusps decreasing from the first, which 

 is minutely serrated on its ascending margin ; median unpoised tooth small, 

 with no median cusp but two or more directed outwards. 



Dorsal fin moderate, acutely angulated at its posterior angle and obliquely 

 emarginated above. 



Anal fin about as large as dorsal, rather further behind, but partly under it, 

 with the anterior angle less produced. 



1862.] 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Caudal fin elongated, with the anterior lobe in front produced downwards 

 and nearly rectangular, and with the terminal one distinct and acutelv triau- 

 gular. 



Pectoral fins moderate, trapezoid produced towards its external terminal 

 angle. 



Ventral fins oblong, emarginated along its external border, acutely produced 

 at its inner or produced angle. 



This generic name of Notorhynchu.% was proposed by Dr. Ayres. under a mis- 

 apprehension, for a species which is congeneric with one regarded by all pre- 

 vious naturalists as a species of the genus Heptanchns. After an examination 

 of the jaws of a shark presumed to belong to the species noticed by Ayres, and 

 presented at Nisqually to one of the representatives of the Exploring Expedi- 

 tion under Commodore Wilkes, I am compelled to believe that such species 

 should be separated from Ileptanchus. The name of Ayres must then be 

 adopted for the genus embracing that species. 



I^'otorkynchus may be briefly characterized as a Hexanchus in form and den- 

 tition with the seven branchial apertures of Heptanchns. If the totality of 

 its character is considered to be of more importance than the number of bran- 

 chial apertures, Notorhynchus is then more closely related to ITeptanchus, 

 having the same form of the head and the same dentition, while it agrees with 

 the latter only in the number of its branchial apertures. 



In addition to the type of the genus, that species of the East Indian Seas first 

 made known by Miiller and Henle under the name of Heptanchus indicus must 

 be referred to Notorhynchus, Like Notorhynchus maculatus, the East Indian 

 species is spotted, and although it appears to differ considerablj- from the for- 

 mer in dentition, that difference cannot be regarded as being of more than spe- 

 cific importance. 



The d fferences in the dentition of the genera Heptanchus and Notorhynchus 

 principally refer to the relative development of the teeth of the lower jaw and 

 their armature. In Heptanchus, the developed teeth on each side of that jaw 

 regularly increase in breadth from the symphysis towards the corners of the 

 mouth, the inner cusp is much enlarged, and its ascending or inner 

 margin is armed with one or two smaller cusps. The median tooth of 

 the lower jaw is also well developed and has a central acute cusp. In Ncto- 

 rkynchus, on the contrary, the teeth of the lower jaw are either uniform or de- 

 crease towards the corner of the mouth, the cusps on the oblique cutting mar- 

 gin are regularly graduated, while the ascending inner margin of each tooth 

 is finely serrated. The median tooth is also emarginated instead of cuspidate 

 at its own middle. The difi'erence between the teeth of the upper jaw in the 

 respective genera is of much less importance. 



The typical or Californian species of Notorhynchus is closeW related to the No- 

 torhynchus indicus, but is at once distinguishable by its dentition, — the teeth of 

 the lower jaw being comparatively broader and less elevated, and armed with 

 six or seven points instead of five, and there being no very prominent denti- 

 cles on the inner margin of the upper teeth near the front ones as there are in 

 those of N. indicus. The dorsal appears also to be nearer the snout than it is 

 in its Indian representative. 



The Notorhynchus maculatus is said by Ayres to be " apparently not un- 

 common in the Bay of San Francisco, at certain seasons of the year." It at- 

 tains to a length of six or seven feet, and is used as food by the Chinese in- 

 habitants of California. 



It will be necessary to bear in mind that the description of the den'ition of 

 Notorhynchus mactilatus is based on the jaws of a specimen obtained at Nis- 

 qually by the Exploring Expedition under Commodore Wilkes. There can be 

 little doubt as to the specific unity of the different materials, but as Dr. Ayres' 

 notice of the dentition is equally applicable to any species of the family, the 

 correctness of this identification still requires to be verified. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



NOTORHYNCHOS MACCLATUS AjrCS. 



Notorhynchiis maculatus Ai/res, Proc. California Academy of Natural Sci- 

 ences, vol. i. p. 72, 1855. 

 Heptanchus maculatns Girard. Explorations and Surveys for a Railroad Route, 

 &c., vol. X. Fishes, p. 367. 

 I 31 + 2*2 -f S-l + 3m 



Dent, -j 



6 i 1 



The first three teeth on each side of the symphysis are on an arch mo-e ad- 

 vanced in front than the others ; they successively increase in size and each 

 has a quadrate bony base from which the enamelled cusp slightly curves 

 outwards and backwards, and whose internal margin is common to it at the 

 base, while the external angle of the latter is more and more produced laterally. 

 The two (or three) succeeding teeth are nearly similar and have a much 

 smaller acute cusp at the outer base of the primary one ; the fifth or outermost 

 of the two bicuspid teeth is wider and much shorter than the preceding, slightly 

 serrated in its ascending margin, and equals in size the nest; the succeeding 

 are finely serrated on the internal basal half of the cusp, while the oblique mar- 

 gin on the outer side of the cusp is armed with very oblique, small and suc- 

 cessively decreasing denticles ; the seventh and eighth teeth being alike armed 

 ■with two or three such denticles directed outwards, while the third is broader 

 with a smaller cusp and an obliquely descending inner margin armed with 

 three or four denticles ; the three succeeding teeth (9 — 11) are smaller, and 

 the great cusp successively becomes smaller and nearer the centre of the teeth. 

 Behind are nine or ten small, wide tubercular teeth. 



There are six teeth on each side of the lower jaw, uniform in shape, very 

 wide, obliquely declining sideways or outwards, and generally with seven 

 graduated cusps, the first of which is largest and the outermost rudimeniary 

 and horizontal. The obliquely ascending inner margin of each tooth is 

 gibbous or curved near the jaw and finely denticulated along most of its edge. 

 The osseous portion is much more developed than the enamelled part and ia 

 about twice us wide as high. Next to each corner of the jaw are aboat nine 

 rudimentary tuberculous teeth. 



Family SPINACOID^E (Owen,) Gill ex Miill. and Henle. 

 S^ua^lur^" P'""'^™ I (7;m>r, Regne Animal, tome ii. p. 123 (129) 1817. 

 Squalidae verse (Spinacini) Bonaparte, Selachorum Tabula Analytica. p. 4, 



1838. 

 Spinaces Muller and Jhnle, Systematische Beschreibung der Plagiostomcn, p. 



83. 

 Squalidae (Anacantiana) Gray, List of Specimens of Fishes in British Museum, 



Chondropterygii, pp 40, 69. 

 Spinacidse Oioen, Comparative Anatomy of the Vertebrated Animals, vol. i. p. 



51, 1846. 

 Spinacoidei Bleeker, Systematis Piscium Naturalis Tentamen. 

 Spinacoidae Gill, Analytical Synopsis of the Order of Squali, pp. 29, 31, 38; 



ib. in Annals of the Lyceum of Nat. Hist, of N. Y., vol. vii. p. 395, &c. 

 Spinax (genus) Cuvier, Regne Animal, ed. 1, tome ii. 



Body more or less elongated, obtusely trihedral or subcylindrical and fusi- 

 form, gradually tapering behind. 

 Scales variable. 



Head depressed, oblong and transversely rounded, or obtusely produced in 

 front, with the snout projecting along the plane of the forehead, and below de- 

 clining backwards to the mouth. Eyes lateral, anterior or submedian, with no 

 nictitating membrane. 



1862.] 




496 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Mouth inferior, large or moderate, and more or less arched in front. 



Teeth compressed, and with the edges consequently trenchant or blunt, and 

 entire or serrated ; supplementary prongs are frequently present at their 

 bases. 



Nostrils inferior and lateral near the front margin of the snout. 



Spiracles present and moderately developed. 



Branchial apertures moderately fine on each side, all of which are in front of 

 the pectoral fins. 



Dorsal fins two, each armed in front with a spine, which is more or less ex- 

 posed ; the anterior angle of each fin is more or less rounded, and the posterior 

 acutely produced backwards ; the first is above the space between the pectorals 

 and ventrals ; the second more or less behind the latter. 



Anal fin obsolete. 



Caudal fin obliquely truncated or emarginated, with the upper lobe obtusely 

 angulated at its extremity ; lower lobe obsolete or rudimentary. 



Pectoral fins normally developed, obtusely angulated at the external angle, 

 and rectangular or acutely produced at the interval. 



Ventral fins inserted far behind and nearer the tail than head. 



The family of Spinacoids, as it has been here restricted, is equivalent to 

 the genus Spinaxoi Cuvier, and embraces only those forms agreeing in physiog- 

 nomy, the shape of the several fins, and the relations of the dorsal spines to 

 their fins. The genus Oxynotus of Rafinesque or Centrina of Cuvier is conse- 

 quently excluded from it. That genus has a very characteristic aspect result- 

 ing from the decided trihedral form of the body and the acute back, the oppo- 

 sition of the second dorsal and ventral fins, and the abrupt attenuation of the 

 tail behind as well as from the shape of the fins, and the insertion of the spines 

 of the dorsal fins. These characters appear to indicate that Oxynotus \s less 

 closely related to the Spinacoids than has been generally supposed, and that 

 it is rather the representative of a peculiar family; such being the case, the fam- 

 ily thus recognized should receive the name of Oxi/notoidce. The Scymnoids 

 are still less allied to the Spinacoids than the Oxynotoids, as they differ in the 

 form of the head and fins as well as in the total absence of spines from the front 

 margin of the dorsal fins. The Echinorhinoids are still more widely separated 

 by the form of the fins as well as the posterior position of the dorsal and ventral 

 ones. 



The family of Spinacoidae as now restricted appears to be represented at the 

 present day by six genera, which may be briefly distinguished by the characters 

 exhibited in the analytical synopsis herewith given. This arrangement differs 

 considerably from that of Miiller and Henle and their successors. 

 A. Teeth without supplementary lateral cusps. Scales cor- 

 date or rhomboid. 



at. Teeth similar in each jaw, with the incisive margin hori- 

 zontal, and terminated at the outer angle in an acute 

 point, directed outwards. 



1. Ventral fins nearly intermediate between two dorsals ; 



pectoral fin obtusely angulated at the inner angle ; 



caudal fin with an entire upper lobe Squalas. 



2. Ventral fins little before the second dorsal ; pectoral 



acutely produced at inner angle; caudal with a ter- 

 minal inferior lobe Eiitoxychirns. 



/?. Teeth in upper jaw oblique or vertical. 



I. Teeth in upper jaw vertical and acute, somewhat in- 

 flated on each side of the base; those of lower jaw 

 with the points directed obliquely outwards, ser- 

 rated on the incisorial or inner margin, and in- 

 flated on the outer side of the base. Scales very 

 small and rhomboid Centropliorns. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 497 



2. Teeth of upper jaw oblique, •with the inner margin con- 

 tinuous from the base: those of lower jtw with the 

 points directed obliquely outwards, and with entire 

 inner incisoral edges. Scales rather large, cordate 



and keeled along middle Lepidorbinus. 



B. Teeth in upper orboth jaws digitate or with alargeacute 

 central cusp, and one or more smaller acute cusps 

 on each side, as in Scyllium. Scales hair-like or 

 quadrangular with an upright point. 



1. Teeth of upper jaw onlv digitated ; of lower like those of 



Squalui. bcales hair-like Spinas. 



2. Teeth of both jaws digitated. Scales quadrangular, 



each with an upright point Centroscjllium. 



Genus SQUALUS (Artedi.) Raf. 

 Squalus Artedi, Linn. 

 Squalus Ratinesque, Caraterri di alcuni cuovi generi e nuovi specie, &c., p. 



12, isio. 



Acanthorhinus Blainville, Journal de Pbrsique, &c., tome Ixxxiii. p. 263, (type 



5. acantkias.) Oct.. 1816. 

 Les AigulUats (Spinax) Cuvier, Regne Aniraal, ed. 1, vol. ii. p. 129, 1817. 

 Acaathias Boniparte. Selachorum Tabula Analytica. 



Body fusiform, slender, with the caudal peduncle also elongated and 

 slender. 



Scales cordiform or heart-shaped, with a middle point, and one or more keels 

 oa each side. 



Head oblong-ovate and flattened, with the muzzle projecting and subconic, 

 but blunt at its extremity. 



Eyes above the mouth, longitudinal and with subcircular pupils, flop from 

 the nostril, nearer the snout than the mouth ; each with a produced border. 



Spiracles large behind and slightly above the eyes, crescentiform convex in 

 front and with a valve at its front margin. 



Mouth little arched in front. Labial cartilages two above and one below. 



Corner pits of the mouth large and obliquely point outwards and back- 

 wards. 



Teeth nearly similar in each jaw, subquadrate, with the incisive edge nearly 

 horizontal, and at the external angle terminating in a point directed outwards 

 and separated by a notch from the body. The root of each tooth is higher on 

 its inner side than its outer, and has on the former a longitudinal keel ; on the 

 outer forms a round ledge towards the point of the tooth. 



Dorsal fins moderate, with a nearly naked spine in the front margin, each fin 

 rounded at its anterior angle, and with the posterior acutely extended back- 

 wards. First dorsal larger, much nearer to the pectorals than the ventrals. 

 Second, far behind and with the spine proportionately larger. 



Caudal lin with the upper lobe much developed and the membrane increasing 

 in height towards the end above the caudal vertebrae, rounded at its end and 

 regularly incurved to the sinus separating it from the lower lobe which is mod- 

 erately developed. Tail pits developed at least at the base of the upper caudal 

 lobe. 



Pectoral fins produced at the external angle, which is rounded, and incurved 

 at nearly right angles to the inner angle, which is more or less blunt. 



Ventral fins submedian, little nearer to the second dorsal than the first, ob- 

 tusely angulited in front, and acutely angulated behind. 



The claspers of the male are furnished on the exterior side near the end with 

 a moveable prickle or spine whose tip is curved. 



Type. — Squalus acanthiae Linn, 



The present genus is here restricted more precisely than has been done, 



1862.] 35 




498 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



under the name of Acanthiaa, by Miiller and Henle, and has the same limits that 

 appear to have been intended for it by the Prince of Canino. It embraces only 

 those species wbich possess all the characteristics assigned to the genus Acan- 

 thias by Miiller and Henle, and which in addition agree in the relative situation 

 of the ventral fins, and the form of the pectoral and caudal fins. The Squalus 

 uyato of Rafinesque is thus excluded. This species diflfers from Squalus acanthias 

 and the allied species, by the distinct terminal lobe with which the caudal fin is 

 provided, the obtuseness of the external angle of the pectoral, and the acute pro- 

 longation of the internal one, as well as the posterior insertion of the ventrals, 

 those fins being but little in advance of the second dorsal. The transverse 

 grooves or pits at the base of the caudal fin are also obsolete. It cannot be doubted, 

 that this combination of characters is indicative of generic distinction from the 

 Squall. The Squalus uyato should then be regarded as the type of a peculiar 

 genus, and in allusion to one of the characters which distinguishes it from 

 Squalux, it may be named EntoyycJiirus uyatus. This species has been referred 

 with doubt to the genus Spinax as distinguished from Acanthias, by Bonaparte, 

 but it evidently does not belong to that group, and is more nearly allied to the 

 latter, in which it has been placed by Miiller and Henle. 



The name of Squalus has been retained for this genus instead of Acanthias, 

 because it was first restricted to the group. 



The genus Squalus of Artedi and Linnaeus was equivalent to the order of 

 Squali ; its species were distributed by Rafinesque among a number of smaller 

 groups or genera, and by him the name was first retained for those species 

 which are deprived of an anal fin and have a blunt back. As Rafinesque was 

 perfectly justified in this limitation, the name of Squalus must be preserved for 

 a portion of that group, and having been first in this limited sense applied to 

 the species with spinous dorsals, must be so retained. Rafinesque's genus 

 Squalus, however, was co-extensive with the fourth section of Miiller and 

 Henle, after the exclusion of the genus Centrina and the family of Squatinae; it 

 embraced all the tpecies with an obtusely trihedral or subcylindrical body and 

 without an anal fin. At the same time, under a misapprehension, supposing 

 that some species were destitute of spiracles, he referred them to anotliergenns 

 called Dalatias, not perceiving the identity of those species with some that he 

 had already placed in the geuus Squalus. 



In 1816, Blainville proposed the generic name AcanthoThinvs for a group 

 which is co-equal with Squalus and Oxynotus of Rafinesque, referring to it all 

 the species of Squali without an anal fin, and with the first dorsal fin on the 

 back, in contradistinction to Echinorhinus in which both dorsals are on the tail.* 

 Squalus was not retained as the name of a subgenus. 



Again, in the following year, Cuvier distributed the same representatives of 

 the suborder Squali among three genera ; Spinax, distinguished by the pre- 

 sence of dor?al spines, and the advanced insertion of the ventral fins : Centrina. 

 with spinous dorsals the second of which and the ventrals were opposed to 

 each other, and Scymnus, the dorsals of which were unarmed. He likewise 

 omitted to retain the Artedian name for any minor group or subgenus of 

 Squali. 



The name of Spinax was retained unaltered for the group eo called until the 

 Prince of Canino, in 1838, restricted it to the Squalus spinax of Linnaeus, and 

 referred the S. acanthias to a new genus which wag named Acantftics. Theee 

 names were retained for those groups till 1862. 



In the " Analytical Synopsis of the order of Squali," the history of the nomen- 

 clature of the genera of that oider was briefly discussed, and it was urged 



* 5°. Afantborhinus, Car. Dent. var. : Insp. magnis ; P. S. 2, 1, in dorso; 2, magna ; P. A, nulla ; 

 •C. lata, bifareota, lobo mp. brevi, Cute atsperrima. 



Spec. Acanthias; Pfrditiandiiiue : Aghifiii: Spinax; Norwegianiis; American us aiit Nicenrif : 

 51irrocephi»lu8; Ontrina; Sqxiani>^uB : (Granulosus; Copwlianus ; Klo^hianus. (JournaJ de 1 hT- 

 eique. ivc, Ixxxiii. p. 2fl.S^ 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



that the Artedian name should be reserved for the genus to which it was first 

 restricted bj Rafinesque. Blainville's name of Acanlhorhinus and Cuvier's of 

 Sj)inax, consequently were referred to it as synonyme.* 



The genus Squalus as n^w understood contains four species. 

 Squalus acanthias Linn. Europe generally. 



Squalus americanus Gill = Acanthias &mericanu3 Storer. Eastern America. 

 Squalus sucklii Gill = Acanthias sucklii Girard. Western America. 

 Squalus blainvillii Gill := Acanthias blanvillii Risso. Mediterranean sea. 



Squalcs sucklii Gill. 

 Spinax (Acanthias) sucklii Girard, Proc. Academy of Natural Sciences oi' 



Philadelphia, vol. vii. p. 196, 1854. 

 Acanthias sucklii Girard, Explorations and Surveys for a Railroad Route, ki. 



vol. X. Fishes, p. 368. 

 Acanthias sucklii Suckley, op. cit., vol. vii. book ii. p. 367. 



Suborder RHLVE Gill. 

 Squalidae anomalae Bonaparte, Sclachorum Tabula Analytica, p. 4, 1833. 



Pectoral fins produced forwards from the anterior basal angle, while the pro- 

 duced portion is separated from the nape by a cleft, in which the branchial 

 apertures are lodged. 



Caudal fin terminal and nearly bomocercal, being nearly equally developed 

 above and below the vertebral column. 



This suborder is most nearly allied to the order of Raiae. The rays some- 

 times present as a monstrosity a separation of the pectoral fins by a cleft from 

 the neck somewhat similar to the mode found as a normal feature in the Rhina. 

 The nominal genus Fropterygia of Otto is founded on such a monstrous ex- 

 ample of a species of Raia.\ 



Family RHINOIDM Gill. 



Squatinae Cavier, Regne Animale. 



Squalidas anomaly (Squatininae) Bonaparte^ Selachorum Tabula Analytica 

 1839. ' 



Squatinae ilulUr and Uenle, Systematische Beschreibung der Plagiostomen. 

 Raiidae (Squatinae) Sicainson, Natural History of Fishes, vol. ii. 1839. 

 Squaiinidie Oicen, Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, vol. ii. 1844. 

 Squatinoidei, Bleeker, Systematis Piscium Nacuralis Tentamen. 

 PJiinoidae Gill, Analytical Synopsis of the Order of Squali, pp. 30, 31, 42, 1862. 



Body depressed, rather rapidly diminishing in width behind the ventral fins 

 towards the caudal. 



Scales minute and conical. 



Head depressed, about as wide as long, rapidly decreasing in width to the 

 snout, which is transversely truncated or bluntly rounded. Eyes on the doreal 

 surface of the head and near the snout. 



Mouth terminal, transverse. 



Teeth subconical or impressed and slightly trenchant. 



2Jostrils terminal, in front of the upper lip. 



Spiracles well developed and behind the eyes, from which they are quite 

 remote. 



Branchial apertures five, approximated, and in front of the base of the 

 pectoral fin, in a cleft between the anterior projection, of which, and the neck 

 they stand. 



* Bonaparte afterwards adopted the nume of Spinax for the geoiu atiil retained under that ap- 

 ^Uatiou, but the genus should b€ credited to him. 



t See also " Nota Bopra una singulare mostraosita di una i-a^za del IX)ttor F. de Filippi," Ar. in 

 >'uovi Anna'i delle ifcienze .N'atorali di Bologna, Feb. 1852. ' ' 



1862.] 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Dorsal fins rather small, placed far back on the tail and behind the ventral 

 fins ; each angle is rounded, and the anterior project backwards. 



Anal fin obsolete. 



Caudal fin small and emarginated, with its lower lobe equal to or larger than 

 its upper. 



Pectoral fins much developed, subrhomboidal, extending forwards from the 

 base and separate by a cleft from the neck. The external angle is obtuse and 

 the inner rounded. 



Ventral fins much developed, rounded at the external and produced at the 

 internal, nearer the head than the caudal fin. 



Genus RHINA Klein. 



fcjqualus, sp. Artedi, &c. 



Rhina Klein, Historiae Piscium promovendae missus tertius depiscibusperbran- 

 chias occultas spirantibus, 1742. 

 Squatina Dum^ril, Zoologie Analylique, 1806. 

 Rhina Rafinesque, Caratteri di Alcuni nuovi Generi e nuove specie, &c., p. 14, 



1810. 

 Squatina Rafinesque, Blainville, Cuvier, Risso, Lesueur, Fleming, Jenyns, Muller 



and Henle, Bonaparte, &c. 

 Rhina Gill, Catalogue of the Fishes of the Eastern Coast of North America. 



Body elongated and depressed, rather abruptly attenuated towards the caudal 

 fin behind the ventrals and carinated on each side. 



Scales conical, terminating in a fine point. 



Head transverse, suborbicular, at the neck slightly constricted, and with the 

 snont transverse. Each side furnished with a cutaneous ledge running from 

 the external corner of the nostrils to the branchial fissure. 



Eves small, circular, in a line with the nostrils and spiracles and nearly 

 equally remote from each. 



Spiracles crescentic and convex before. Upper lip broad. 



Cartilages of the mouth two above as well as below. 



Nostrils in the anterior border of the upper lip, notched in the middle, and 

 provided on each side with ft flap, the external of which is broad and indented, 

 and the interval divided into several scalloped lappets. 



Teeth conical, little trenchant, scattered and absent at the symphisis of both 

 the upper and lower jaw. 



Dorsal fins nearly equal, small, and nearly equidistant from each other, the 

 ventrals and the caudal ; the angle is rounded and projects backwards as far 

 as the rounded posterior angle. 



Caudal fin emarginated with obtuse lobes, the lower of which is larger. 



Pectoral fin large, produced towards the external angle, and broaded at the 

 inner. 



Ventral fins oblong, rounded at the anterior or external angle, and acutely 

 produced towards the inner. 



The genus Rhina is the only existing representatives of the family of which 

 it is typical, and is readily recognizable by its peculiar form. In allusion to 

 that form, the vulgar namer of Angel fish has been applied to it, the physiog- 

 nomy of the species recalling to the mind of the people the figures of 

 " Cherubim.''^ 



Six species of this genus are more or less perfectly known. They are dis- 

 tributed in all the temperate seas of the Northern hemisphere. Three species 

 have been assigned to the Mediterranean sea. 

 Rhina squatina Raf. ex Limi. 

 Rhina oculata Gill ;= Squatina oculatft Bon. 

 Rhina fimbriaia Gill = Squatina fimbriata M. and H. 



One species clusely related to the R. sqziatina and formerly confouaded with it 

 is found at Japan. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



Rhina japonica Gill = Squatina japonica Bleeker. 



Another species also nearly allied to the R. squatina is found along the east- 

 ern coast of the United States. 

 Rhina dumerili Gill = Squatina dumeril Les. 



A sixth has been described as an inhabitant of the California seas. 

 Rhina californica Ayres = Squatina ca\\iovn\.c& Ayres, oli'u. 



Tlie^name of a species (-S^Ma^wa angelina Gray,) inhabiting the Caribbean sea 

 has been published in Gray's Catalogue of the Choudropterygians, but uoi the 

 slightest diagnosis has been given. 



Rhina californica Ayres. 

 Squatina californica Ayres, Proc. of the California Academy of Natural Sci- 

 ences, part 2, p. 29, 1859. 

 Rhina californica Ayres, Proc. of the California Academy of Natural Science?, 

 part 2, p. 54, fig. 7, 1861. 



On the limits and aflinity of the Family of LEPTOSCOPOIDS. 

 BY THEODORE GILL. 



In the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences for April, 1859, 

 (vol. xi. p. 282,) there has been first made known a peculiar type {Dactylos- 

 copus tridigitatus) of fishes having the general appearance of a Urauoscopoid, 

 but distinguished by the structure of the ventral fins, each of which had 

 three simply articulated rays like those of the Blennioids. " Notwithstanding 

 the abnormal and blennioid structure of the ventrals," the new type was said 

 to agree in all other characters, except dentition and the origin of the dorsal 

 fin, with a species referred to the genus Uranoscopus* by Sir John Richardson ; 

 it was consequently referred next to that fish, but as the type of a distinct sub- 

 family, (Dactyloscopinae,) the species of Richardson being also considered as 

 the type of another peculiar subfamily, (Leptoscopinae.) 



In the " Annals and Magazine of Natural History," for February, I860, 

 (vol. iii. p. 86, ) Giinther described a type which differed from Leptoscopus and 

 agreed with Dactyloscopus in the want of palatal teeth. 



In a subsequent " Synopsis of the Uranoscopoids," published in the Proceed- 

 ings of the Academy for May, 1861, (vol. xiii. p. 108,) the correctness of the 

 approximation of the Dactyloscopinje next to Leptoscopinae was still further 

 insisted upon, and both were retained in the same family with the Uranosco- 

 pinae. 



In the third volume of the * ' Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes in 

 the Collection of the British Museum," Dactyloscopus was referred to the 

 Blennioids, and interposed between Tripterygium and Dictyosoma. Dr. Giin- 

 ther remarked, that ^^Dactyloscopus has been referred by Gill to the Uranos- 

 copina,\ from which, however, it differs in several cardinal characters. The 

 structure of the dorsal and ventral fins is that of a Blennioid. The absence 

 of pseudo-branckice is very peculiar ; but in this respect it differs equally from 

 the Uranoscopina and Blenniidae."|§ 



The (Jranoscopinae formed a "group" or subfamily of the family of Trachi- 

 nidae as understood by Giinther. 



* Leptoscopus macropygus. 



t The grouj) Uranoscopina of Giinther, which is equivalent to the family of Uranoscopoidc, 

 after the elimination of the species with less than five ventral rayS; is meant, and not the sub- 

 family of UranoscopinsB as restricted by Gill. 



J Giinther, op. cit., iii. p. 279. 



^ In his remarks on the family Blenniidse, Dr. Giinther has observed that the value of the 

 development of the psm k>-branchi8e, as a character of that family, "apiiears not to be sufficient, 

 Dactylf/scopus and Patacus forming exceptions, although tho structure of their dorsal fin proves 

 that their natural place is with or near the Blennioids." The real structure of the dorsal of Dactylos- 

 copus proves the contrary : the natural place of Pat^iciis is rather near, than with, the Blennioids. 

 (Genypterus is a Chilian Opfddioid ; Loarces and Lycodts form a peculiar family, all wanting truo 

 dorsal spines.) 



1862.] 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The characters of the Trachinidae and Blenniidse given by Giinther are 

 essentially interchangeable, with the exception of the following : 



Trachinid^. — " One or two dorsal fins, the spinous portion being always much 

 Icis developed and shorter than the soft ; the anal similarly developed as the soft 

 dorsal; ventrals with one spine and Jive rays.* Gill openings more or less wide."j 



Blenniid^. — "One, two, or three dorsal fins, occupying nearly the whole of 

 the back, — the spinous portion, if distinct, being as much developed as the 

 soft, or more." " Ventrals jugular, composed of a few rays, and sometimes 

 rudimentary or entirely absent." 



Only two "cardinal characters" have thus been used to distinguish the 

 Trachinidse and Blenniidae. 



Dactyloscopus was said by Giinther to have " one dorsal, formed by spines 

 only;" it therefore had nominally the distinctive characters of the Blennioids 

 as understood by that gentleman. 



I have, on the other hand, specifically asserted that only the first eleven 

 or twelve rays are spines, the others (22 — 31) being " articulated, and divided 

 ou each side of the mesial line to the base, but so connected as to appear like 

 simply articulated rays, especially from a lateral view. ' ' Gunther's observa- 

 tion is therefore incorrect. J 



Dactyloscopus then agrees with the Trachinoids and diflFers from the Blen- 

 nioids in a character which has been emphatically insisted upon by Dr. Giin- 

 ther, and to which the structure of the ventrals has been always subordinated 

 by him. 



It disagrees with the Trachinoids and agrees with the Blennioids in the 

 structure of the ventral fins ; a character which Giinther has elsewhere 

 regarded as of little importance. 



It therefore, according to Giinther's diagnosis, only differs from the Trachi- 

 noids in one "cardinal character," which is of much less value than the 

 cardinal character which it shares in common with the Blennioids. 



Further, it agrees with the Trachinoids and departs from the Blennioids by 

 the width ot the gill openings, and also diflFers from the Blennioids by the 

 large scales. 



Accepting Dr. Gunther's own views of the relative value of certain charac- 

 ters, Dactyloscopus is thus more allied to the Trachinoids than to the Blen- 

 nioids. Therefore, it was probably only on account of a misapprehension 

 that the genus was referred to the Blennioids. I shall, however, still refer to 

 the arguments adduceable in favor of its reference near the Uranoscopoids. 



The form of the head of a Blennioid is quite characteristic, owing to the 

 abrupt decurvature of the profile in front of the eyes, and the almost or quite 

 horizontal cleft of the mouth. 



Equally characteristic is the form in the Uranoscopoids, the profile in front 

 of the eyes being continued on nearly the same plane as the crown, while the 

 cleft of the mouth is very oblique or vertical. 



Dactyloscopus agrees in general form with the Uranoscopoids. 



The Uranoscopinje,§ Leptoscopinse and Dactyloscopinae agree with each and 

 diflfer from the Blennioids in — 



Ist. General form. 



* In Epicopus with one spine and six rays. — Giinther. 



t The italicized parts are repeated from Gunther's Work. 



:;: l nm happy to state, that Dr. Gunther has since admitted that the anterior rays of Dactylos- 

 copus a.U>nv a.rv spinous. In a letter of the 25th May, he writes : " Your statement of a portion 

 of the (loisal rays being articulated is correct; they are very well preserved in the smallest of 

 our specimens, (18 liues long,} whilst in the larger (30 lines) most of them are broken at the top, 

 a.s I now see." l)r. Giinther has rot given his present opinion of the affinity of the Dacti/lnstopi. 



J It is proper here to remark, that the Uranoscojn4S adhaesipmnis of BIyth {Journal of the 

 Asiatic Society of Bengal, vol. xxix. (I860,) p. 42,) does not belong to the same family as I'ranosco- 

 pus, but apparently belongs to the same genus as the Polycavhis elongaius (Giinther ex Cuv.) 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



2d. Form of the head. 



3d. Direction of the mouth. 



4th. Extent of the branchial aperture. 



5th. Development of a fold^between the limbs of the lower jaw. 



6th. Fringed lips. 



7th. Brevity of the spinous portion of the dorsal fin. 



The Leptoscopinse and Dactyloscopinae still further agree with each, still 

 diflfering from the Blennioids in — 



1st. Special form. 



2d. Course of lateral line. 



3d. Special form of head. 



4th. Fringed opercula. 



It agrees with the Blennoiids, and departs from the Uranoscopoids in — 

 1st. The structure of the ventrals. 



2d. Simplicity of the pectoral rays. 



With the knowledge that the attributes of the Uranoscopoids above referred 

 to are very peculiar and characteristic, it must be evident that such a com- 

 bination is entitled to much more consideration than the simple agreement in 

 two features, which are by no means peculiar to one group, but shared by 

 many dissimilar families and regarded as of slight importance by Giinther 

 himself. 



In the " Synopsis of the Uranoscopoids," I have remarked that, on account 

 of the special similarity of form, the larger scales, median lateral line, smooth 

 head, extent of the dorsal and anal fins, and the absence of pyloric caeca, 

 " the Leptoscopinae and Dactyloscopinae" together would " be probably re- 

 ferred by some future naturalist to a distinct family." But owing to the many 

 characters shared in common, I doubted the propriety of such a separation. 

 Since the discovery of two other forms, I am now convinced that such a family 

 exists in nature, and therefore now establish it under the name of Leptosco- 



POIDiE. 



Family LEPTOSCOPOID^i: Gill. 



Body equally developed above and below the axis, regularly and slowly de- 

 creasing in height to the caudal fin, and behind the abdominal region much 

 compressed. 



Scales cycloid, moderate in size, and regularly imbricated. 



Lateral line anteriorly running along each side of the back and thence 

 decurved and continued along the middle to the base of the caudal fin. 



Head oblong, above nearly plane or slightly convex transversely and not 

 crested, scarcely curved towards the suout. Eyes rather small, more or less 

 directed upwards or on the upper surface of the head, and advanced far for- 

 wards. Suborbital chain enlarged, but no bone connected with the preoperculum 

 as a "stay." Nostrils double. Opercular bones normally developed with 

 regard to each other. Operculum fringed. 



Mouth with the cleft very oblique or subvertical. Intermaxillary bones 

 with moderate or rather short posterior branches, and with the diverging 

 forming the upper portion of the oral arch, the supramaxillars forming the 

 sides. Lips fringed. 



Branchial apertures very large and below in front of the scapular arch, 

 partly covered below by a transverse duplicature or fold of the membrane be- 

 tween the limbs of the lower jaw. 



Branchiostegal rays, six. 



Pseudobranchiae, present or absent. 



Dorsal fin entire and very long, with its anterior rays spinous, and the pos- 

 terior articulated. 



Anal fin very long, commencing behind the anus, which is itself in or close 

 behind the breast. 



1862.] 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Caudal fin completely homocercal or equally developed above and below the 

 axial line. 



Pectoral fins variable, with the base concave and descending forwards below. 



Ventral fins jugular, normally developed (I. 5) or with only three articula- 

 ted rays, and a rudimentary spine in each. 



10 + x 



The vertebrae are present in increased number ( ). 



14 + 3/ 



The stomach is siphonal, and the pyloric caeca are obsolete. 



This family is closely related to that of the Uranoscopoids. but appears to 

 be sufficiently distinguished on account of its elongated form, the course of 

 the lateral line, the development of the dorsal and anal fins, and the absence 

 of pyloric cseca. Other characters of less importance, but possessed by all 

 the representatives of the Leptoscopoids, and by none of the Uranoscopoids, 

 are the entire nudity or smoothness of the head, the fringes of the opercula, 

 and the larger size of the scales. 



Its affinities with other families are remote ; the one most nearly allied to 

 it after the Uranoscopoids is that of the Trachinoids. Its relations to the 

 Blennioids are no more intimate than with a number of others. 



The representative of the family of Leptoscopoids maybe distributed among 

 three minor groups or subfamilies, as follows : 



I. Pectoral rays branched. Ventral fins perfect, (I. 5). (Dor- 



sal fin remote from nape. Pseudobranchiae developed), LeptoscopixjK. 



a. Vomerine and palatine teeth developed Leptoscopus. 



/3. Vomerine and palatine teeth obsolete Crapatalus. 



II. Pectoral rays simply articulated. Ventral fins imperfect, 



each with three simply articulated rays, (I. 3). 



A. Dorsal fin commencing quite far behind the nape. 



Pseudobranchiae developed MrxoDAGHiMiB. 



0. Head conoid. Lower jaw obtusely pointed and 



with a short flap in front Myxodagnus. 



et. Head cuboid. Lower jaw transversely rounded 



in front Dactylagnus. 



B. Dorsal fin commencing at the nape. Pseudobranchiae 



obsolete Dacttloscopin^. 



Head cuboid Dactyloscopus. 



In defereace to the opinions of some naturalists, I had at one time almost 

 resolved to refer the tridigitate Leptoscopoids to a peculiar family which 

 would be characterized by the simply articulated rays of the pectoral fins and 

 the imperfect blennioid condition of the ventral fins. On reconsideration, 

 however, I am yet unable to convince myself of the propriety of such an act, 

 and think that it will be advisable to at least defer it until the value of family 

 characters among fishes may be better known. 



LEPTOSCOPIN^ GiU. 



Leptoscopinae Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. vol. si. (1S59), p. 133; vol. 

 xiii. (1861) p. 116. 



LEPTOSCOPUS GiU. 

 Leptoscopus Gill, loc. cit. 



Leptoscopus macbopygus Gill. 

 Uranoscopus macropygus Rich. 



CRAPTALUS Gunther. 

 Craptalus Gunther, Annals and Mag. Nat. Hist. ser. iii. vol. vii. p. 86, (1861.) 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



Ceaptalus nov^-zelandi^ Giinther. 

 MYXODAGNIN^ Gill. 

 Mjxodagninse GUI, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. vol. xili. (1S61), p. 263. 



DACTYLAGNUS Gill. 

 Dactylagsus mundus GiU. 



MYXODAGNUS Gill. 

 Myxodagnus Gill, op. cit. and Giintlier. 



Myxodagnus opeeculabis Gill. 

 DACTYLOSCOPINuE Gill. 



Dactyloscopinae Gill, Proc Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. vol. xi. (1859), p. 133 ; 

 vol. xiii. (1861), p. 116. 



DAGTYLOSCOPUS Gill. 

 Dactyloscopus Gill. op. cit. 



The three species of this genus may be distinguished as follows : 



I. Scales of median portion of lateral line 31 — 32. 



Height scarcely equal to one-seventh of length. Scales 



of dorsal portion of lateral line 11 (12) D. tridigitatus. 



Height nearly equal to a sixth of length. Scales of 



dorsal portion of lateral line 13. (conf. color) D. poeyi. 



II. Scales of median portion of lateral line 24 D. pectoralis. 



Dactyloscopus teidigitatcs Gill. 



Dactyloscopus tridigitatus Gill, Giinther. 



D. X-XI. 27. A. II. 28-33. C. 13. P. 13. Scales 11 (12) j 4 | 31. GUnther in litt. 



D. XI-XII. 26-28. A. II. 30-32. C. 12. P. 13. Scales 11 | 4 [ 30-31. Gill. 



Dactyloscopus poeyi Gill. 

 D. XI. 31. A. II. 32. C. 12. P. 13. Scales 13 j 4 ] 31. 

 Dactyloscopus pectoealis Gill. 

 D. XII. 22. A. II. 26. C. 12. P. 12. Scales 13 1 3 | ^. 



Genus DACTYLAGNUS Gill. 



Body moderately elongated, its greatest height equalling a sixth or seventh of 

 the length. 



Scales moderately large and uniform. 



Head cuboid, oblong, scarcely convex transversely above. Eyes small, di- 

 rected obliqiiely upwards, and situated near the snout on the upper surface 

 of the head. Interorbital area moderate and channelled. 



Mouth very oblique or sub vertical, the snout truncated in front. Lower 

 jaw transversely convex in front and with no barbel. 



Teeth acute, in a narrow band along each jaw. Palate smooth. 



Dorsal fin perfectly entire, commencing rather farther behind than the anal, 

 and with its anterior portion armed with about ten slender spines. 



Anal fin longer than the dorsal. 



This genus so closely resembles Dactyloscopus externally that I had pro- 

 visionally referred its typical and only species to that group, without a sus- 

 picion that it might belong to a diflferent one, and it was only after my atten- 

 tion was particularly attracted to it that I ascertained how distinct it really 

 was. It may be briefly described as a Myxodagnine in the mask of a Dacty- 

 loscopus. It dififers from the latter genus chiefly in the structure of the dorsal 



1862.] 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



fin and the presence of pseudobranchise, of whicli no trace is perceptible in 



Dactyloicopun* 



Dactylagnus mundus Gill. 



The greatest height is rather less than a sixth ('16) of the total length. 

 The head, from the prominent chin to the posterior margin of the subopercu- 

 lum, forms a fifth of the same length, while the caudal forms a tenth. The 

 dorsal fin commences nearly over the second inarticulated ray of the anal fin, 

 and its spines increase in a slightly curved line towards the articulated rays. 

 The oblique levator muscle of each pectoral ray is remarkably developed ex- 

 ternally, and impart to the rays a curve upwards towards the ends. 



The lateral line runs near the back through fourteen scales, is deflected on 

 four, and thence continued along the middle through thirty-six. 



D. X. 31. A. II. 38. C. 11, 1, 4, 4, 1, IV. P. 15. V. I. 3. 

 5 



Scales 14 I 4 I 36 — 

 5 



Extreme length 5| inches. 



Body — Greatest height 16. Least height 16. Least height of tail 4. Great- 

 est width 12. 



Head — Greatest length 20. Distance from upper jaw to nape 10. Height 

 at preoperculum 12. Greatest width 12. "Width behind eyes 8^. Height 

 behind eyes 10. Width of interorbital area 2. 



Eye — Diameter 3. Distance from snout 3. 



Dorsal (spinous). — Distance from snout 23. Height at first spine 3^. Height 

 at second spine 4J. Height at tenth spine 5^. Height at first ray 5|. 



Anal — Distance from snout 27. 



Caudal — Length of middle rays 10. 



Pectoral — Length 18. 



Ventral — Length of inner ray 10. 



A single specimen of this species was obtained at Cape St. Lucas by Mr. 

 Xantus, and is contained in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution. The 

 species is decidedly the giant among the known species of the tridigitate Lep- 

 toscopoids, its length being nearly twice as great as the largest specimen of 

 Bactyloscopus tridigitatus known to me. 



November 4.tli. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Sixteen members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Note on the epecies of Brachinus inhabiting the United States" 

 and *' Synopsis of the species of Colymbetes inhabiting North Ame- 

 rica, etc. By John L. Le Conte, M. D." 



" On the Pedipalpes of North America. By Horatio C. Wood." 



November lltJi. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Seventeen members present. 



* Dr. Guiither has kindly informed me that he was uoable to find pseudobranchiae in the Dae- 

 tyloscopus tridigitatus, but that there is " a slight swelling at their usual place," w hich is a««r- 

 taincd to be "muscular substance, as seen under the microscope." 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 507 



November \9>ih. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-one members present. 



Prof. Baird communicated the fact that in his recent visit to Philadelphia, 

 he had noticed that the leaves of the Silver Maple in the city and vicinity were 

 dotted with black, indurated spots. Having transmitted specimens to Mr. C. 

 C. Frost, the cryptogamic botanist, of Brattleboro', Vt., he was informed that 

 the spots consisted of the Rhytisma aceris-eriocarpoe, Schw. 



Dr. Leidy presented a specimen of syenite obtained from a recent exposure 

 of that rock, among the gneiss on the Schuylkill, at Fairmount Park. He 

 also remarked that he had noticed a boulder, apparently of Potsdam sand- 

 stone, at the corner of Thirty-seventh and Market Sts., which had been ex- 

 posed in digging gravel. It was the largest transported block he had observed 

 in our vicinity. It is oblong square and measures 7 feet long, 32 inches high 

 and 40 inches wide. 



November 2bih. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Eleven members present. 



On report of the Committee, the following paper was ordered to be 

 published in the Proceedinp;s : 



Monograph of the Prehensile-tailed QUADRUMANA. 

 BY J. H. SLACK, M. D. 



Few departments of mammalogy are less thoroughly understood than that 

 of the American Quadrumana. The great variety of coloration in many species 

 consequent on age and sex, added to their comparative rarity, combine to ren- 

 der their study excessively diflScult. Suites of specimens of any species are rare 

 even in the great European Museums. The species of the genus Cebus, perhaps 

 the most common of the American Quadrumana have long been a source of dis- 

 pute among naturalists. Wagner, (Schreber's Saugetbiere, Supplement band, vol. 

 i. p. 207, 1840,) reduces the number of species in this genus to two, regarding 

 the second as doubtful, while Reichenbach, (Die Vollstandigste Naturgeschichte 

 der AfFen, part I.) is content with no less than thirty-seven, not only describing 

 but figuring them ! In the Cebus fatuellus, the young is of a light brown, and 

 the adult of a deep black color, and in the Aluatta niger {Stentor niger, Geoff.) 

 the female and young are of a pale straw color, slightly dashed with black, 

 while the adult male is entirely of an intense black. As such states of colora- 

 tion have been regarded by certain eminent naturalists as specific characters, 

 great confusion in synonymy has resulted. 



In regard to nomenclature, I have followed closely the rule of priority, always 

 adopting the oldest generic and specific names whose applications can be ascer- 

 tained. In regard to the rules given by Isidore Geoffroy St. Hilaire,* (Cat. 

 des Primates, p. xi ,) the first and second are broken by him on the fourth 

 page of the work in which they are promulg;( ted : where the generic name 

 Troglodytes is retained for an animal living among the branches of trees, the 



* Rejeter les noms absurdes par eux memee, ou contradictoires avec les fails ou les idees 

 quils sont destines a exprimir. 



Rejeter les noms deja employes dans une autre acceptation. 



Considerer comme non avenus (toutfois les citant en synonymie) les noms tombes 

 en desuetude- 



1862.] 




508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



same name having been given to a genus of birds by Vieillot, (Oiseaux de 

 L'Amerique septentrionale, p. 52, 1807,) five years previous to its being applied 

 to the above mentioned ape by Geoffroy St. Hilaire ; and, on page 53 of the 

 same work, the specific name nigcr is retained for a howler, the female and 

 young of which are characterized as being yellowish [jaunaire.) The third rnle 

 is not generally recognized at the present day. 



The measurements recorded have been taken with great care, but allowance 

 must be made for the distortion of the specimens by skinning and mounting; this 

 distortion is sometimes very great, especially in the specimens from the Para- 

 guay and Atrato expeditions. The length of tail in the same species is very 

 variable, owing probably to the great liability of that organ to injury. 



The materials for the present paper have been drawn from the following 

 sources. The collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia ; 

 that of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington City, the Quadrumana belong, 

 ing to which, collected by the United States' Paraguay, Amazon, and Atrato Ex- 

 peditions, were kindly forwarded to me by the Secretaries, who are ever ready 

 to assist the student-naturalist by every means in their power; the magnifi- 

 cent collection of the British Museum, London, opened to me without restric- 

 tion, through the kindness of Dr. J. E. Gray, and Mr. G. R. Waterhouse ; the 

 collection in the magazin of Messrs. J. & E. Verreaux, No. 9, Place Royale, 

 Paris, where every facility for investigation was kindly afforded me ; and a view 

 (through the glasses,) of the specimens in the Musee d'Histoire Naturelle, at the 

 Jardin des Plantes, Paris, where, however, I was refused permission to open the 

 cases for the closer examination of the specimens. lam therefore unable to 

 give measurements of some species, unique specimens of which are preserved in 

 that magnificent, though inaccessible collection. 



I adopt the following classification of the American Quadrumana: 



Order QUADRUMANA. 

 4 

 Family Simiid^. Dentes primores - contigui. 



4 

 6 

 Subfamily Cebinae. Molares - 



6 

 5 

 Subfamily Hapalinae. Molares - 



5 



The CeblncB I propose to divide into three tribes, viz.: 



Lagothrice. Cauda prehensili ; apice subtus calva ; denies primores 

 erecti. 



Cebi. Cauda laxa; villosa ; dentes primores erecti. 



Pitheciae. Cauda laxa; villosa; dentes primores obliqui. 



The Cebira have been regarded by most authors as having the prehensile tail, 

 and this is mentioned by Erxleben (Syst. 1777, p. 44,) as a generic character of 

 this group. Though sufficiently flexible to be wound around the body, it is far 

 from serving the purpose of a fifth hand, as is the case in the Lagothrkes. This 

 organ in the Cebi is clothed with hair to the tip, while in the Lagothricines the 

 terminal inferior portion is naked and callous. 



Tribe I. LAGOTHRICBS. 



Simia (parte), Z«n«., Ed. xiii. 1788, p. 26. 



Cebus (parte), Erxleben, Systema, 1777, p. 44. 



Gvmnuri, Spix, Sim. et Vesp., 1823, p. 1. 



Cebus (parte), Fisher, Syn. Mam., 1829. p. 3?. 



Atelina and Mycetina, Gray, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1849, p. 10. 



Cauda longa, prehensili ; apice subtus calva. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



Tail very long, generally exceeding the head und body in length, very 

 strongly prehensile, terminal inferior portion naked and callous. 



I have selected the genus Lagothrix as the typical genus of this tribe, as each 

 of the other genera possesses some peculiarity either of excessive, or arrested 

 development. 



Genus I. Sapajou, Lacepede. 



Simla (parte), Linn., Systema, ed. xiii. 1788, p. 26. 

 Cebus (parte), Erxleben, Systema, 1177, p. 44. 

 Sapajou, Laciphde, Mem. de I'lnstilute, 1800 — 1801, p. 489. 

 Ateles, Geoff., Ann. du Mus., 1806, p. 260. 



Artus graciles longi ; antipedes tetradactyli aut verruca in loco pollicis ; 

 instructa dentes primores superiores inequales, lanarii illis longiores, conici. 



Body light and slender; compressed at the loins, and expanding in the tho- 

 racic region ; limbs very long and slender; anterior thumbs wanting, or replaced 

 by a small nailless tubercle ; forehead salient, muzzle elongate, molars circu- 

 lar and small, the fourth and fifth being largest, canines large and conical, su- 

 perior incisors of unequal length, the median equalling in size the largest 

 molars ; hair silky. 



Isidore St. Hilaire, in his paper upon the Eriodes, (Mem. du Mus., vol. xviii. 

 1829, p. 121,) states thai in the skull of this genus a portion of the circumference 

 of the anterior nares is formed by the ascending portion of the superior maxilla- 

 ries, the intermaxillaries not articulating with the nasal bones. This is not 

 always the case, as I have met with several skulls of species of this genus, in 

 which the ascending portion of the intermaxillaries, and the inferior borders of 

 the nasal bones were in contact; no true articulation, however, takes place, the 

 points of the bones merely touching each other. The name Sapajou proposed 

 for this genus by Lacepede, has not been adopted by subsequent authors ; it cer- 

 tainly is at least five years prior to that of Ateles, and should be restored. 



Sapajou paniscus, Lacepede. 

 Simia paniscus, Z/«n., Syst. ed. xiii. 1788, p. 36. 

 Cebus paniscus, j&rx., Systema, 1777, p. 46. 

 Ateles paniscus, Geoff., Ann. duMus., vol.vii. 1806, p. 269. 

 Coati, Btiffon and Latreille. 

 Quatto and Coactu, Vosmaer. 



Icones, Audebert, Singes Fam. V. sect. 1, fig. 2. Bnffon, Hist. Nat., vol. xv. 

 fig. 1. Latreille, Les Singes, vol. ii- fig. 62. 



S. ater. Facie tota nuda, carnea ; palmis tetradactylis. 



Hab. — Guiana. 



Entirely of a deep shining black color ; anterior hands tetradactyl ; tail 

 about one-fourth longer than body; face naked and of a flesh color ; hairs of 

 forehead very long and projecting anteriorly. 



This species is by far the best known of any of the genus, numbers being 

 captured when young by the natives of Guiana, and, as they are of a hardy tem- 

 perament, they thrive well in captivity ; its habits in this state are gentle and 

 pleasing. In a state of nature they live in large troops, numbering sometimes 

 as many as one hundred individuals. They are much hunted for food by the 

 natives, their flesh being considered a great delicacy. Their food consists 

 chiefly of the fruit of a species of palm. Dampier (Voyages, vol. iv. p. 228) 

 states that they resort to the sea-side, at low water, in large numbers, for the 

 purpose of colleciing oysters, breaking the shell between stones, and eating the 

 animal with great gusto. Latreille states, (Hist. Nat. des Singes, vol. ii. p. 145,) 

 that they devour large numbers of fishes, which they capture by means of their 

 tails! this we fear must be received "cum grano salis," though that organ is 

 used for a great variety of purposes. The naked portion is studded with 

 papillae analogous to those of the human hand, and, from experiments made 



1862. J 




510 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



npon the living animal, it appears to be more sensitive than the hand itself. This 

 species is found in Guiana and Northern Brazil. 



Skull No. 189 in collection of Academy — Antro-posterior 4-2 ; occipito-fron- 

 tal 3-2 ; bi-temporal 2-25; bi-parietal 2-5; cranial capacity 6 inches; facial 

 angle 55°. 



Lower Jaw. — Angle to symphysis 2-5 ; angle to condyle 1-8 ; angle to coro- 

 noid process 1-8; posterior molar to coronoid process 1-05. 



Sapajou ater, 

 Ateles ater, F. Cuvier, Mammifers, 1823. 

 Cebus ater, Fischer, Synopsis, 1829, p. 40. 

 Le Cayon. 



Icoues, C'mu., Mammifers, (Icon sine numero.) Regne Animal (editio Fortin, 

 Masson & Co.), Mammifers, T. xvi. 



S. ater; palmis tetradactylis ; facie nigra. 



Junior, brunneus. 



Hah. Guiana. 



Entirely black; thumbs of anterior hands wanting; face black, the superior 

 portion naked, the chin covered with short stiflf black hairs, among which are 

 scattered a few of a white color ; hairs of forehead directed posteriorly, formiog 

 a tuft. 



This species closely resembles ihc paniscus, but may always be distioguished 

 by the color of the face, and the direction of the hairs of the forehead. The 

 color of the young is much lighter than that of the adult. A young specimen, 

 (No. 4618) in the Smithsonian collection, has a decided brown tint upon the 

 back and external surface of limbs. 



Its habitat is Guiana. 



SaPAJOD PKNTADACTYLD3. 



Ateles pentadactylus, Geoff., Ann. du Mus., 1806, t. vii. p. 267. 

 Ateles chamek, Humb., Rec. des Obs. Zool., 1811, p. 353. 

 Ateles subpeutadactylus, Desmarest, Mammalogie, 1820, p. 77. 

 Chamek, Buffon and Humboldt. 



Icon, Reichenbach, Naturgeschicte der Affen, vol, i. T. 148. (Fig. pcssima.) 

 S. ater ; palmis subpentadactylis ; pollice minimo ; facie nuda cupreaque. 



Habitat. Guiana. 



Entirely black ; anterior thumbs replaced by a small nailless tubercle, face 

 naked, and of a copper color. 



The coloration of this species is similar to that of the ater s^ni. paniscua, but 

 it may readily be distinguished by the presence of a tubercle upon the anterior 

 hands in the position of the thumb ; the hairs of forehead are long, projecting 

 anteriorly, as in ihe paniscus, the skull differs materially from that of any other 

 of the genus in being compressed laterally, forming a slight crest at the sagit- 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCfENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



511 



tal suture, the rami of the lower jaw are much broader, approaching in shape 

 that of the Howlers. Isidore St. Hilaire in his memoir upon the classificatioa 

 of the Quadrumana, (Arch, du Mus. vol. ii. p. -149,) raeatioas a specimen having 

 the thumb absent on one hand. 



Sapajoc belzebcth. 

 Simla belzebuth, Brisson, Regne Animale, vol. 1, 175G, p. 194. 

 Ateles belzebuth, Geoff., Ann. du Mus., vol. vii. I80G, p. 2G0. 

 Ateles belzebuth, Humh., Receuil, vol. i. 1811, p. 337 and 353. 

 Cebus Brissonii, Fischer, Synopsis, 1829, p. 40. 

 Marimonda et Aru, Humh. 

 Icon. Ann. du Mas., vol. vii. T. 16. 



S. niger; palmistetradactylis; ventre cruribus et caudae parte interiore ochreo- 

 leucis. 



Hab. — Guiana, Brazilia et Peruvia. 



General color brownish-black, becoming reddish brown in the lumbar region : 

 belly, neck, and internal surface of limbs yellowish-white; inferior surface of 

 tail reddish- brown. Face naked and black; tip of nose sometimes reddish- 

 brown, sometimes black. 



Humboldt states that in captivity this species is cross and fretful, frequently 

 attacking those from whom it habitually receives its food. Its cry is a repeti- 

 tion of Ou-a, Ou-a, and may be heard to a great distance. 



Its geographical range extends across the entire continent from Guiana to 

 Peru. 1 have met with no specimens collected south of the Amazon. Huaa- 

 bolJt found it quite common on the banks of the Orinoco. 



Skull No. 362, Academy — Antro-posterior 4-3; occipito frontal 33 ; bitem- 

 poral 2-2; bi-parietal 2-3; cranial capacity 5; facial angle 56°. 



Lower Jaw. — Angle to symphysis 2-8 ; angle to condyle 1-45 ; angle to coro- 

 noid process 1-6; posterior molar to coronoid process 1 05. 



Sapajou geoffroyii. 

 Ateles Geoffroyii, Kuhl, Beitrag, 1820, p. 26. 

 Ateles fuliginosus, Kuhl, Beitrag, 1820, p. 25. 

 Cebus Geoffroyii, Fischer, Synopsis, 1829, p. 40. 

 Ateles melinochir, Desmarest, Mam., 1820, p. 76. 

 Eriodes frontatus. Gray, Voy. of Sulphur, vol. i. 1844, p. 1. 

 Ateles variegalus, Natterer* in Reichenbach's Atlas, pt. 1, p. 62. 

 Icones, Voyage of the Sulphur, T.i. Foeminaet juvens. Reichenbach"s A'las 

 pt. I, fig. 154. 



S. ater ; ventre et artibus interne stramineis ; macula triangular! frontali 

 aurea aut nigra ; dorso nigro. 



Poem, etraminea aut fuliginosa ; genubus et manibus nigis : macula fronlaii 

 nigra. 



Hab. — Brazil et Bolivia. 



Adult male, back, external surface of limbs and tail glossy-black • belly 

 throat, internal surface of limbs, and inferior portion of tail bright-yellow, 

 upon the forehead a triangular spot of bright golden yellow, the hairs eom- 



* I have never met with Natterer's original description. I find it quoted in Reiclienbaob's Atlac. 

 the figure ie that of the a.lult of this specioB, though the frontal spot is t«x) larg*. 



1832.] 




512 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



posing which are directed superiorly ; hairs of occiput long and black; cheeks 

 covered with short white hair ; behind and beneath cheeks, two pencils of long 

 black hairs directed anteriorly. 



Female and young male, coloration generally lighter than in male, the black 

 of the back and limbs being replaced by a brown of greater or less intensity, 

 according to the age of the specimen ; triangular spot upon the forehead black, 

 the hairs composing it being yellow at their bases and black throughout the 

 remainder of their length ; elbows and feet black. 



Young, yellowish, dashed with brown, frontal spot as in female, or with the 

 hairs black to the root. 



By means of a fine suite of specimens, in the collections of the Academy and 

 Smithsonian Institution, I have been enabled to study with care this most 

 curious species. Though varying greatly in coloration it may always be re- 

 cognized by the triangular frontal spot. 



I have examined the skull of a female corresponding in coloration to Dr. 

 Gray's Brachyteles frontalus, and find it decidedly that of a Sapajou, the distance 

 between the intermaxillaries and nasal bones being one-tenth of an inch. 



The only specimen 1 have met with from a well authenticated locality is one 

 collected "by the Paraguay expedition (Sm. Inst. No. 3252), in Bolivia. Speci- 

 mens in the collection of the Academy are marked Brazil, but as they were 

 purchased of a dealer, little reliance can be placed upon it. Dr. Gray's type is 

 marked Tropical America, and no locality is given for any specimen in the 

 Paris museum, all being "De la Menagerie." 



Skull of No. 3232, occiput broken* — Antro posterior ? ; occipito frontal ? ; 

 bi-temporal 2-35; bi-parietal 2-4; facial angle 56° ; cranial capacity ?. 



Lower Jaw.— AngiQ to symphysis 2-8; angle to condyle 1 5 ; angle to coro- 

 noid process 1'7 ; posterior molar to coronoid process 1-25. 



Sapajou makgi.natcs. 

 Ateles marginatus, Geoff., Ann. du Mus., vol. xii:., 1809, p, 92. 

 Ateles fronlatus, Bennett, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1830, p. 38. 

 Ateles albifrons, Sckinz., Synopsis, vol. i., 1844, p. 63. 

 Chuva, Humboldt. 

 Icon. Ann. du Mus., vol. xiii., T. 9. 



S. niger ; pilis faciem cingintibus pariira albis ; sincipite albo. 



Hab. — Brazil, Grand Para. 



General color black ; belly and internal surface of limbs ashy-grey ; face 

 naked, flesh-colored in the occular region, the remainder black; forehead, 

 sinciput and a spot on each side of nose white or grey. 



Humboldt found this species quite abundant in the province of Jaen de Bra- 

 camoios ; he describes its disposition as fierce and libidinous. 



Sapajou htbridus. 

 Ateles hybridus, Is. Geoff., Mem. du Mus., vol. xvii., 1828, p. 168. 



* This skull presents the anomaly of a well developed seventh molar in the left superior max- 

 illary ; such anomalies are not uufrequently met with among the Quadrum.ina. I recollect ex- 

 amining at the Magazin of Verreaux fieres, Paris, a skull of (he Simiu satyrus having on each 

 side ot the lower jaw fi.\ well dehucd molars. 



[N< 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



513 



Mono zambOj native name. 

 Icon. Guerin, Mag. de Zoologie, 1832, fig 1. 



S. Supra griseo-brunnens ; infra albidus macula frontali semilunari aut 

 triangulari alba. 



Hab. — New Grenada. 



Body and tail ligbt chocolate-brown, lighter upon head, neck, hands, and 

 external surface of limbs; throat, belly, and internal surface of limbs grey; 

 upon the forehead a triangular or semilunar white spot ; face naked and black ; 

 chin and lips sparsely covered with thick, short, white hairs. 



This species may be distinguished from the marginatus by the coloration. 

 The young of that species, even at birth, is similar in coloration to the adult; 

 the frontal spot is always white or grey, thus distinguishing it from the Geof- 

 froyii. The name Mono zambo is stated by Isidore GeofFroy to signify Mulatto 

 Monkey, from its color being somewhat similar to that of the hybrids between 

 the Indians of Columbia and the negro. Skulls of the Aluatta palliatvs, how- 

 ever, received from the Atrato expedition, are marked Mono zambo. 



Genus II. BRACHYTELES, Spix. 



Brachy teles, Spix, Sim. et Vesp., 1823, p. 36. 

 Eriodes, Is. Geoff., Mem. du Mus., 1829, p. 121. 



Corpus robustum ; cranium rotundum ; nares oblongae, antrorsum versae, 

 septo tenui Beparatae ; manibus tetra aut pentadactylis ; dentes primores 

 iequales, lanarii breves. 



Body heavy, facial angle about 60® ; head more spherical than in the Sapa- 

 jous ; nostrils circular, more inferior than lateral; anterior thumbs wanting, 

 or rudimentary, sometimes terminated by a small nail; tail longer than body ; 

 incissrs equal; canines small, not exceeding the incisors in length; molars 

 larger than incisors, quadrangular. Intermaxillaries articulating with na.<;al 

 bones by a broad surface. Hair woolly. 



I cannot agree with Isidore St. Hilaire that the description of this genus by 

 Spix is incorrect ; the peculiar position of the nostrils, which resemble more 

 those of the Quadrumana of the Old World than any other of the American 

 genera, the equality in the size of the incisors, shortness of the canines, and 

 globular form of head appear to me sufficient generic distinctions. The length 

 of pelage, and the question whether it may be soyeux or laineux does not ap- 

 pear to me to be of generic value. 



Bbachyteles arachnoides. Gray. 

 Ateles arachnoides, Geoff., Ann. du Mus., t. xiii. 1809, p. 89. 

 Ateles hypoxanthus, Desm., Mammalogie, 1820, p. 75. 

 Brachyteles macrotarsus, Spix, Sim. et Vesp., 1823, p. 36. 

 Eriodes tuberifer, hemidactylus, and arachnoides, Is. Geoff., Mem. du Mus., 



t. xvii. 1828, pp. 160, 161, 162. 

 Brachyteles arachnoides, Gray, Cat. of Brit. Mus., 1843, p. 10. 

 Mariki kupo and Macaco vernello. Native names. 



Icones, Ann. du Mus., vol. xiii. Pr. 9. Spix, Sim. et Vesp., T. 27. Maxde 

 Wicd., Abbild. zur Brazil, vol. i. T. 1. 

 B. Cinereo fiavescens; ad caudse basin ochraceus: facie nuda; pollice aut 

 nulla, aut brevis; ungue carente aut priedita. 



1862.] 



36 




514 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Ilah. — Brazil. 



General color yellowish brown, darker upoa the occiput, upon the forehead 

 a few long black hairs, buttocks, region of the anus and inferior basal portion 

 of tail dark reddish brown. 



I had long suspected that the three species of this genus described by Isidon.- 

 St. Hilaire, were in reality one and the same species ; no specific characters are 

 manifest in their coloration, or skulls, the different species being based upon the 

 development of the anterior thumbs, this member being absent in the arachnoides : 

 replaced by a small nailless tubercle in the tubtfer, and surmounted by a nail ir. 

 the hemidactylus. In the Magazin of Messrs. Verreaux, 9 Place Royale, Paris. 

 I found specimens having upon one hand the tubercle, and upon the other the 

 nailed thumb, others with the tubercle upon one hand, but absent upon the 

 other. Isidore St. Hilaire himself (Cat. des Primates, p. 51) expresses a doubt 

 as to whether the arachnoides and hemidactylu-i are really distinct. la Sep- 

 tember and October, 1860, I was unable to find the hemidactylus in the Pari? 

 Museum, all the Brachyteles being labelled Eriodes arachnoides. 



Skull of No. 59V, young, occiput broken — Antro-posterior 3-8 ; occipito-fron- 

 tal 3 ; bi-temporal 2 ; cranial capacity ? ; facial angle 66. 



Lower jaio. — Angle to symphysis 2 ; angle to ctjndyle 1-3 ; angle to coronoid 

 process 1-4 ; posterior molar to coronoid process -88. 



Genus III. LAGOTHRIX, Geoff. 



Lagothrix, Geoff., Ann. du Mus., vol. xix. 1812, p. 106. 

 Gastrimargus, S^ix, Sim. et Vesp., 1823, p. 39. 



Caput obtusum, rotundatum ; rostro sima, manibus pentadactylis ; dentep 

 primores parvus, lanarii illio longioris. 



Body heavy, head globular, muzzle of adult much flattened, anterior hanclf 

 pentadactyl, incisors small and of unequal size, the superior median being 

 largest ; canines very large and strong, carinated on their posterior surfaces, 

 and grooved anteriorly ; anterior nasal foramen nearly circular. 



This genus was founded by Geoffrey St. Hilaire, in his Tableau des Quadru- 

 manes (ante cit.) Spix, eleven years after, in his elephantine work upon the Quad- 

 rumana and Cheiroptera, of Brazil, proposed for it the name Gastrimargu;. 

 from the great voracity of the only known species, which is said to exceed that 

 of any others of the American Quadrumana. The skull can be readily disiin- 

 o-uished from that of the Sapajous and Bracbyteles by the mode of articulation 

 of the nasal bones with the intermaxillaries. Ic the Sapajous no true articula- 

 tion can be said to take place, the intermaxillaries terminating generally in a. 

 point a short distance below the intermaxillaries, though sometimes barely 

 touching them ; in the Brachyteles and Lagothrix, a broad, well-marked artic- 

 ulation takes place, in the former species perpendicular to the suture between 

 the nasal bones, and in the latter parallel to it. The rami of the lower jaw are 

 much broader than in either of the before mentioned genera, approRchinp in 

 size and form those of the Howlers. 



Lagothrix hcmboldtii, Geoff. 

 Siraia cana, J7«m6., Receuil des Obs., vol. i. 1811, p. 354. 

 Simla lagothrica, " " " " " pp. 322 and 354. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



515 



Lagothrix cana and Humboldtii, Geoff., Ann. du Mu?., vol. xix. 1812, p. 107. 



Gastrimargus infumatus et olivacens, Spix, Sim. et Vesp., 1823, p. 39. 



Cebus lagothrix, Fischer, Synopsis, 1829, p. 41. 



Lagothrix capparo. Lesson, Species, 1840, p. 125. 



Lagothrix poppigii et infumata, Schinz , Synopsis, 1844, pp. 71 and 72. 



Lagothrix Castelnaiai, Is. Geoff, and Deville, Comptes Rendus, vol. xxvii. 1848, 



p. 496. 

 Capparo, IftimboMt. 

 Icones, Spiz, Sim. et Vesp., tab. 28 and 29. 



L. Mas brunneus cum cana admixta ; facie nuda et nigra ; capite et manib as 

 nigris ; femoribus et cauda brunneo-fusca. 



Foemina oliTacea ; pilis capites niger. 



Catulus olivaceo-canus ; capite manibus et cauda infera nigro-fuaco. 



Mab. — Brazil, Bolivia, Venezuela, Peru. 



Adult male, general color reddish brown, dashed with hoary gray, the hairs 

 being brown at their bases, tipped with gray ; the brown predominating apon 

 the internal surface of limbs and perineal region ; belly dark brown, sometimes 

 black, terminal portion of tail and top of head black; face naked and black, 

 upon the lips a few scattered white hairs; 



Female, general color olive yellow or brown ; head black. 



Young, hoary grey, darker on belly and internal surface of limbs ; hands 

 and top of head black. 



The great variety of coloration in this species resulting from age and sex has 

 led to great confusion in its nomenclature. I have examined with great care 

 specimens of the various so-called species, and believe them all to be one and 

 the same. The collection at the Jardin des Plantes, contains specimens la- 

 belled canus, Humboldtii, and Caslelnaui, those of the ca7ius (including the 

 typical specimen, part of the spoils of Bonaparte from Portugal,) are, as may 

 be seen by reference to the catalogue, (page 50,) all young males, and Isidore 

 Geoffroy himself expresses a doubt as to its being distinct from the Humboldtii. 

 Ayoung specimen, (No. 28,) in the collection of the Academy, presented in 1857, 

 the coloration of the Castelnaui, answering perfectly the description given by 

 Isidore Geoffroy and Deville ; by exposure to light and the camphorated and 

 arsenical vapors of the museum, the color has slightly faded, and the specimen 

 now answers perfectly the description of the canus. The L.poeppiyii 1 have never 

 seen, but the description by Schinz (L. notaso castaneo fusco ; gastraeo niger- 

 rimo ; facie nuda nigra rugosa. Synopsis mavimalium, p. T2,) does not differ es- 

 sentially from that of the adult Humboldtii. 



Skull of No. 3238, occiput broken — Antro-posterior ? ; occipito-frontal ?; bi. 

 temporal 2-2 ; bi-parietal 2-4 ; cranial capacity ? ; facial angle 50°. 



Lower jaw. — Angle to symphysis 2-6; atigle to condyle ]-9r); angle to coro- 

 aoid process 1-8; posterior molar to coronoid process 8'5. 



Genus IV. ALUATTA, Lacepede. 

 Simia (parte) Liun., Ed. xiii. 1788, p. 26. 



Cebus, (Juv. and Geoff., Magazin Encyclopedique, vol. i. 1705, p. 71. 

 Aluatta, Lac^pide, Mem. de ringtilute, 1777, p. 469. 

 Mycetes, Illiger, ProdFomus, 1811, p. 70. 

 Stentor, Geoff., Mem. du Mas., 1812, p. 107. 



1862.] 




516 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Caput pyramidale, manibus pentadactjlis ; os hyoideum prominens, caver- 

 nosum. 



Head pyramidal, facial angle about 50°, inferior maxillary large and massive, 

 incisors small and equal, canines, and molars large ; occipital bone with a well 

 defined median ridge terminating superiorly in an osseous tubercle ; body of 

 hyoid bone very large and hollow, very apparent in the living animal, chin 

 bearded, face naked. 



Of all genera of American Quadrumana, the present is perhaps the most un- 

 attractive and even repulsive in appearance ; a huge pyramidal head placed 

 upon a thick unwieldy body, contrasts strongly with the globular heads and 

 comparatively light bodies of the genera before enumerated. Its chief pecu- 

 liarity, however, consists in the enormous development of the body of the hyoid 

 bone ; this is of an ovoid form and hollow ; one in the collection of the Academy 

 has a capacity of 5 cubic inches.* 



By means of this curious organ the voice of the animal is augmented to such 

 a degree that it may be heard at a distance of three miles. I have been in- 

 formed by persona residing at Panama, that the senicula loses its voice en- 

 tirely in captivity. The same may be true of other species. 



Aluatta senicula, Laeepede. 



Simia semculvt9,Lt7in., Ed. xiii. 1788, p. 3(5. 



Aluatta seniculus, Lac^pdde, Mem. de I'lnst., vol. iii. 1800, 1801, p. 489. 



Stentor seniculus, Geoff., Ann. du Mus., vol. xix. 1812. 



Steutor chrysurus, Is. Geoff., Mem. du Mus., vol. xvii. 1848, p. 166. 



Mvcetes laniger, etauratus, Gray, Ann. and Mag. of Nat. Hist., vol. xvi. 1845, p. 



219, 220. 

 Aluatte, Buffon ^ Audehert. 

 Aluattp, Ouarine et Hurleur, Latreille. 

 Royal monkey. Pennant. 



Icones, Latreille, Les Singes, vol ii. T. 115 and 116. Audebert, fam. 5, sect. 1, 

 fig. 1. Guerin, Mag. de Zoologie, 1832, class 1, torn. vii. 



A. Corpore fulvo-fusco aut aurescente; capite collo ante brachiis, femoribus 

 et Cauda castuneis ; barba longa rufescente ; facie pectoreque, nudis et nigris. 



Hab. — Brazil, Equador, Venezuela and New Grenada. 



Head, neck, limbs and tail, dark chestnut brown : back and sides golden yel- 

 low ; beard in adult long, the hairs composing it being mostly golden yel- 

 low at their bases, and chestnut brown through the remainder of their length ; 

 face naked and black; chest naked, abdomen sparsely covered with long, 

 brownish hairs. 



The above description is taken from an adult male (No. 985) in the collection 

 of the Academy. The young have the same general distribution of colors, 

 though of a darker shade. Dr. Gray, in his paper upon the genus Mycetes, 

 (Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., Oct. 1845, p. 219) lays great stress upon the texture 

 of the hairs as a specific distinction. la the present species the hairs of the 

 adult are soft to the touch, while those of the young are hard and rigid. In 

 regard to the identity of this species with the chrysurus of Isidore Geoffrey, I 

 was for some time in doubt, but the examination of a large number of speci- 

 mens has convinced me that it is but a slight variety of the senicula ; the 

 skulls present no dissimilarity ; the only external difference being that the api- 

 cal third of the tail is similar in coloration to the back. In a suite of speei- 

 niens from New Grenada, one has the terminal portion of the tail bright golden 

 yellow ; in the second, it is somewhat darker, and in the remaining two it has 



* A full and complete account of the anatomy of this curious organ and the adjacent parts may 

 bo fnind in the GeUTies de Pierre Camper, Paris, 1803, 3 vols. 12mo., vol. 1, p. 76. AJsi> iu the Ilis- 

 t.iire Naturellf des Singes, Latreille, Paris, 1801, 2 vols., Timo. vol. 2, p. 125. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



517 



he chestnut browu color of the senicula. Dr. Gray's M. laniger is undoubteJly 

 of this species. 



Skulls. — Current No. 578 A. N. S. — Antro-posterior 4-j5; occlpito-frontal 

 2-15; bi-temporal 2 ; bi-parietal 2-5; facial angle 43° ; craaial capacity 4-25. 

 Current No. 3424 Smithsonian. — Antro-posterior 4-3 ; occipito 2-9 ; bi-temporal 

 2 ; bi-parietal 2-5 ; facial angle 45° ; cranial capacity 4. 



Lower Jaw. — Current No. 578 ; angle to symphysis 3-2 ; angle to condyle 2-4; 

 angle to coronoid process 2-25 ; posterior molar to coronoid process 1. Current 

 No. 3424; angle to symphisis 3-1 ; angle to condyle 2.4 ; angle to coronoid 

 process 2-25; posterior molar to coronoid process 1. 



Alcatta cesina. 



Stentor ursinus and fuscus, Geoff., Ann. du Mus., tom. xix., 1812, p. 108. 

 Simla ursina, flavicaudata et guariba, Humboldt, Rec. des Obs., tom. i., 1811, p. 



355. 

 Mycetes bicolor? Gray, Aon. and Mag. N. Hist., vol. ivi. 1845. p. 219. 

 Icon, Eumb., Rec. des Obs. T. xxx. 



Adultus fuscus, fulvus. 



Catulus pilis nigris, apicibus fulvo-fuscis, artibus nigris aut fuscis. 



Adult. — General color yellowish brown or brownish yellow; hairs of shoul- 

 ders aunulated with black. 



Half grown. — Body as in adult, limbs and tail very dark brown, approaching 

 black. 



Young. — General color black, tips of hairs of body yellowish brown, base of 

 tail and anal region reddish brown. 



This species, as well as the following, is remarkable for the great variety of 

 coloration occasioned by age. The young at first sight appears of an intense 

 black color ; but upon a closer examination, the hairs, more especiallj' of the 

 back and sides of head, are found to be tipped with reddish brown. As the ani- 

 mal becomes older, the black gradually disappears, a yellowish brown color 

 appearing in its place, until in the adult the only remains of the black are to 

 be found in a few annulalions in the hairs of the shoulders. 



Cur- 

 rent 



No. 



Leugth of j Length of i i 



Nature 



Ant. I Post. I Owned by of 



limbs, limbs. , Specimen. 



Ant. Post 

 hands hand: 



27 Brazil cf 21 4-3 4.8 21 21 35 5 11-5 11 Academy i Monnt- 



' 1 eil skill 

 571 H- 1-8 4 4-4 23 22 38 5 13 14 " '• 



57 I " C 1-5 3 4 17 11 3 I 4 8 83 " '« 



Skull. — Antro-posterior 3-8 ; occipito-frontal 23 ; bi-temporal 1-85 ; bi-parietal 

 1-9 ; facial angle 50° ; cranial capacity 3-75. 



Lower Jaw. — Angle to symphysis 3 ; angle to condyle 2-05; angle to coro- 

 noid process 1-95 ; posterior molar to coronoid process 1-05. 



1862.] 




518 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



p. 108. 



Aluatta nigra. 

 SteMtor niger et stratuinsea,'^ Geoff., Ann. du Mus. vol. xix., 181: 

 Simia caraya, Humh., Rec. des Obs. vol i, 1811, p. 39-t. 

 Mycetes barbatus, Spix, Sim. et Vesp. 1811, p. 4.5. 

 Ico", Spix, T. xxxiii. 



IFab. — Brazil, Paraguay et Bolivia. 



A. Atra ; foeraina et juniores straminei nigro varii. 



Adult. — Male entirely of a deep black color ; hairs of occiput directed forward, 

 meeting iit right angles those of the forehead, which are directed backward. 



Female and Young. — Pale straw color dashed with black. 



The young of this species are at birth entirely of a pale straw color. About 

 the period of the second dentition the hairs upon the medio-dorsal line become 

 black at their bases ; soon after, this change takes place upon other parts of the 

 body, the black gradually taking the place of the straw color, until the entire 

 body in the adult male is of an intense black color — the adult female having 

 the coloration of the half grown male. Upon the forehead is a well marked 

 semicircular ridge of hairs formed by the meeting at nearly right angles of the 

 hairs of the forehead and occiput; iLe tips of these hairs in the female are 

 black. 



Skulls — Current No. 4619(5^; antro-posterior 5: occipito-frontal 3-2: bi- 

 temporal 2-2 ; bi-parietal 2 ; cranial capacity ? ; facial angle 40°. Current Xo. 

 5136 O; antro-posterior 4-1; occipito-frontal 2-8 ; bi-temporal 2 ; bi-parietal 

 205 ; cranial capacity 4-25 ; facial angle 45°. 



Lower Jaus. — Current No. 4619; angle to symphysis 3-9; angle to condyle 

 3-1; angle to coronoid process 3; posterior molar to coronoid process 1-35. 

 Currant No. 5136; angle to symphysis 21; angle to condyle 235 : angle to 

 coronoid process 2-25; posterior molar to coronoid process 1. 



Aluatta Beelzebul. 

 Simla Beelzebul, Linn., Ed. xiii. 1785, p. 35. 

 Mycetes rufimanus, Kuhl, Beitrage, 1820, p. 31. 

 Mycetes discolor, Spix, Sim. et Vesp., 1823, p. 48. 

 Mycetes villosus? Gray, Ann. and Mag, of N. H., 1845, p. 220. 

 Icon., Spiz, T. xxxiv. 



Hub. — Brazil, Paraguay. 



A. Nigra, pilis ad basin brunneis, manibus fuscis aut griseis. 



Black, slightly dashed with yellow on belly and on internal surface of limbs ; 

 li.i.irs of body brown at their bases and black at their apices; hands reddish- 

 brown or grey. 



This sj)ecies resembles at first sight the niger or young ursina, but may be 

 readily distinguished from the former by the brown tint of the bases of hairs 

 of body ; from the latter, by the length of the hairs and the total absence of the 

 reddish-brown at their apices, which is always present in that species. Much 

 stress has been laid on the coloration of the hands ; this is very variable, being 

 ic some specimens reddish-brown, in others greyish, and in others nearly black. 



* la. Geoffrey St. Ililaire's paper, though dated subsequently to that of Humboldt, must have been 

 pu!)'.ish'>d anterior to it, sod Humboldt quotes Sientor niger. Geoff, as a synonym. I have there- 

 fore retained Geoffrey's name. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



519 



Skull No. 3255, much broken. — Antro-posterior4-3 ; occipito-frontal 2-4; bi- 

 temporal 1-8; bi-parietal 1-85; facial angle? cranial capacity?. 



Lotuer Jaw. — Angle to symphysis 3 ; angle to condyle 2*4 ; angle to coronoid 

 process 2-3; posterior molar to coronoid process 1-05. 



Aluatta palliata. 



Mycetes palliatus, Cray, Proc. Zool. See, 1848, p. 138. 

 M. Beelzebul, Schoit, Michler's Rep., 1862, p. 413. 

 Icon., Proc. Zool. Soc, 1848, T. vi. 



A. Nigra, pilis ad basin fulvis, lateralibus longis. 



Hah. — New Grenada. 



Head, limbs, and tail black : hairs of back and sides very long, forming a 

 kind of mantle as in the Colohus guercza, of a yellowish-brown color, tipped 

 with black ; hairs of body black at their tips and yellowish-brown throughout 

 the remainder of their length. 



Of this rare species the Smithsonian collection contains four specimens, col- 

 lected by the Atrato Expedition ; the hiirs of the mantle appear to be bright 

 yellow in youth, becoming brown in the adult. From the great mutilation of 

 the specimens I am unable to give other than approximate measurements. 



Skull — Current No. 3423; antro-posterior 3-95; occipito frontal 2-8; bi- 

 temporal 1-85 ; bi-parietal 1-95 ; cranial capacity 4 in.; facial angle 50°. 



Lower Jav:. — Angle to symphysis l'\ ; angle to condyle 2 ; angle to coronoid 

 process 1-85; posterior molar to coronoid process -8. 



Geographical distribution of the Lagothricina;. 



PQ 



Mp5 



h; (V5 



^1 



o 



Sapajou paniscus 



" ater 



" pentadactylus. ... 



" Geofifroyi 



" Belzebuth 



" marginatus 



" hybridus 



Brachyteles arachnoides. 



Lagothrix Humboldtii 



Aluatta seuicula 



" ursina 



" niger 



" Beelzebul 



" palliata 



1862.] 




520 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



December 2d. 

 The President, Mr. Lea, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-eight members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 A Review of the Ferns of North America. By Elliott Coues. 

 Catalogue of the Miocene Shells of the Atlantic Slope of the United 

 States. By T. A. Conrad. 



Dr. I. I. Hayes made some remarks on some fragments of a supposed 

 meteorite presented by him to the Academy. They were obtained from 

 Savisavik, a little below Cape York, lat. 76° N. The mass was described by 

 the Esquimaux as weighing several tons. 



By resolution, the thanks of the Academy were tendered to Dr. 1. 1. 

 Hayes for the very valuable series of specimens collected in his last 

 Arctic Expedition and presented to the Academy. 



December 9th. 

 The President, Mr. Lea, in the Chair. 

 Nineteen members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 Descriptions of new and recent Miocene Shells. By T. A. Conrad. 

 Remarks on some species of Paludina, Amnicola, Yalvata and 

 Melania. By James Lewis, M. D. 



December IGfh. 

 The President, Mr. Lea, in the Chair. 

 Twenty members present. 



December 2od. 

 The President, Mr. Lea, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-three members present. 

 The following paper was presented for publication : 

 Description of Fossils from the Yellow Sandstone lying beneath the 

 Bur lington Limestone, itc. By Alexander Winchell." 



Mr. Cassin communicated the fact that the Snow-Owl is at present unusually 

 frequent iu the vicinity of Philadelphia, more so than he had ever known it 

 previously to be. 



Dr. Hayes referred to his having discovered remains of the Musk Ox, in 

 Greenland, from lat. 7S^ to 7S° 20', where the animal is now extinct. Speci- 

 mens of these remains had been presented to the Academy. He also made 

 some remarks on the extinction of the Esquimaux in Northern Greenland. 



December SOih. 

 The President, Mr. Lea, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-three members present. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



On report of the Committee, the paper read Xov. 4th, entitled, " On 

 the Pedipalpes of North America, by Horatio C. Wood, M. D.," was 

 ordered to be published in the Journal ; and, on report of the respec- 

 tive Committees, the following papers were ordered to be published in 

 the Proceedings : 



Synopsis of the Species of COLYMBETES inhabiting America, north of 



Mexico. 



BY JOHN L. LE CONTE. M. D. 



The number of known species of Colymbetes, with the elytra transversely 

 striate (Cymatopterus Esch.) has been so increased within a few years that a 

 synoptic table, expressing the differences between them, is now desirable ; 

 for the purpose of avoiding the necessity of reference to scattered descriptions, 

 I have completed the table by adding the characters of the species belonging 

 to the other divisions of the genus. The measurements are in decimals of an inch. 



A. Elytra reticulate ; claws of hind tarsi not very unequal in size (except 



in sp. 8). 

 a. Body convex, very finely reticulated ; anterior and middle tarsi of male 

 very feebly dilated : Ilybius Er. 



§ Base of thorax broadly rounded. 



'^'5. Black, slightly bronzed, oval, not dilated at the middle, less obttise 

 behind ; elytra with the usual pale spots ; outer hind claw two-thirds as long 

 as the inner one. Middle States .... 1. ungularis Lee. 



•40 — -45. Black, slightly bronzed, oval, very slightly dilated at the middle, 

 less obtuse behind ; elytra with the usual pale spots ; outer hind claw three- 

 fourths as long as the inner one. Middle, Southern and Western States, and 

 Canada. Dytiscus big. Germ. ; Colymbetes fenestralls || Say ; var. II. pleuriticus 

 Lee. . . . . . . . . . 2. biguttulns Lee. 



•45. Black, slightly bronzed, oval, not dilated at the middle, scarcely less 

 obtuse behind ; elytra with the usual pale spots ; the usual confused lines of 

 punctures more distinct than in the two preceding species ; outer hind claw 

 three-fourths as long as the inner one. Oregon and Russian America. 



3. quadrimaculatus Aitht, 



•46. Var. ? Dark-bronzed color, a little more convex than No. 3, but with the 

 lines of punctures on the elytra equally distinct ; the anterior spot is longer 

 than in No. 3. Methy ; Robert Kennicott. 



•42. Brownish-black, slightly bronzed, oval, slightly dilated at the middle, 

 not less obtuse behind ; thorax with the sides nearly straight ; elytra with 

 the anterior pale spot very small, the hind one wanting ; lines of punctures 

 visible only behind the middle. North Red River. 4. f r a t e r c u 1 u s Lee. 



•37 — '41. Black, slightly bronzed, oval, elongate, not dilated at the middle, 

 somewhat less obtuse behind ; elytra with the usual pale spots, the hind one 

 quite large ; lines of punctures visible only behind the middle. Nebraska. 

 Ilybius I aramceus hec. ...... 5. laramseus Lee. 



•36. Black, slightly bronzed, elongate oval, not dilated at the middle, less 

 obtuse behind ; elytra with the usual pale spots not visible ; confused lines 

 of punctures quite distinct to the base. . . . 6. picipes Kirby. 



•36. Black, slightly bronzed, elongate oval, not dilated at the middle, not 

 less obtuse behind ; elytra with the pale spots very distinct ; confused lines of 

 punctures visible to the base ; surface less convex and more finely reticulated 

 than in C. picipes 7. ignarus Lee. 



§§ Base of thorax bisinuate, hind angles prolonged, acute. 

 •40. Elongate oval, less convex than usual, black, scarcely bronzed ; series 

 1862.] 




522 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



of elytral punctures distinct and regular, extending to the base ; outer hind 

 claw less than one-half as long as the inner one. Dacotah. 8. sinuatus. 



b. Body slightly convex, elytra coarsely reticulated, anterior and middle 

 tarsi strongly dilated : Meladema Lap. 



•63. Elongate oval, black, thorax nearly three times as wide as long, sides 

 nearly parallel behind, rounded in front ; elytra a little wider than the thorax, 

 and forming ai^ angle with it. Lake Superior and Saskatchewan. Agabus 

 nng. Lee. 9. angustus. 



B. Claws of hind tarsi very unequal. 



A. Anterior and middle tarsi with three joints strongly dilated, and furnished 

 with small cups beneath ; 



a. Elytra with numerous impressed transverse lines, Cymatoptekits Esch. 



* Legs black : 



§ Sides of the thorax sinuous near the anterior angles, which are 

 subacuminate. 

 •75. Elongate, gradually narrowed at each end, but less obtusely behind, 

 black, nearly opake ; head and thorax finely sculptured, lines of elytra fine 

 and approximate ; front and base of antennae obscure red. Kadjak. 



10. obscuratus Mann. 



§§ Sides of thorax rounded; anterior angles acute. 

 •74. Elongate oval, very slightly dilated behind the middle, above piceous» 

 shining ; sides of elytra, basal margin and suture anteriorly pale, transverse 

 lines fine approximate ; thorax pale piceous, with a large transverse dark 

 cloud, sculpture fine and dense, head dark brown, front base of antennae and 

 two spots between the eyes pale ; beneath very black. Saskatchewan. 



11. s eminiger Zee. 

 •64 — '70. Elongate oval, shining, elytra cinereous brown, sides and basal 

 margin pale, transverse striae fine, but less dense than in the preceding ; 

 thorax black, with the sides and an interrupted transverse band pale brown, 

 sculpture dense ; head black, with two vertical spots, front labrum and base 

 of antennjfi pale ; beneath very black. Lake Superior and Methy. 



12. longulus Lee. 



** Legs brown or pale piceous ; color above brown, shining, sometimes dark, 

 sometimes pale ; thorax with a dark transverse cloud ; 



§ Sides of thorax broadly rounded, or nearly straight. 

 •62. Elongate oval ; thorax with sinuous rugosities, not connected together; 

 lines of elytra deep and distant ; legs very dark. San Diego, California S . 



13. strigosus Lee. 

 •62. Elongate oval ; thorax with very deep, dense and anastomosing rugosi- 

 ties ; lines of elytra deep and approximate ; legs pale. Methy J . 



14. exaratus Lee. 

 •63. Elongate' oval ; thorax with finer anastomosing rugosities, deeper in 9 

 than (^ ; lines of elytra deep, moderately approximate : front and middle 

 legs paler than hind legs. Middle States (^ 9- f^*^^- triseriatu:^ Kirby. 



15. sculptilis Harris. 

 •64. Elongate oval, slightly dilated behind ; thorax with fine, somewhat 

 anastomosing, but not very dense rugosities ; lines of elytra deep and approx- 

 imate ; legs pale, thighs somewhat darker than the tibiae. Oregon ^. 



16. d 6 n s us Lee. 



•62. Elongate oval, slightly dilated behind ; thorax with fine and dense 



anastomosing rugosities ; lines of elytra very deep and approximate ; legs 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 523 



pale brown (sides of thorax more rounded than inC, exaratus). Russian 



America 9 17. dolabratus Payk. 



'56. Elongate oval ; thorax with extremely fine anastomosing rugosities, 

 sides almost straight ; lines of elvtra naoderate ; legs pale brown, thighs 

 slightlj darker. Greenland cJ*$. . . 18. groenlandicus Aube. 



§§ Sides of thorax strongly rounded, sinuate near the anterior angles, which 



are strongly acuminate. 



'60. Elongate oval ; thorax feebly punctured towards the base, with scarcely 



perceptible rugosities ; lines of elytra deep, moderately approximate ; legs pale 



brown, thighs darker. Greenland O, . . 19. drewseni Lee* 



b. Elytra not striate transversely : Raxtus Esch. 

 Thorax pale, with two dark spots placed transversely : 

 •47. Elongate oval, elytra irrorated with black and pale ; prosternum and 

 legs pale brown. Middle States and Canada. Col. maculicollis Auba. 



20. binotatus Harris. 

 •47. Elongate oval ; elytra irrorated with black and pale ; prosternum and 

 hind legs black, or very dark brown. Oregon and Russian America. 



21. di V i s u s Aube. 



•41. Elliptical, moderately convex; thorax pale yellow, with the front and 



hind margins broadly black : elytra irrorated with black and pale. Lake 



Superior, Canada, Hudson's Bay Territory, Oregon. . 22. a g i 1 i s Aube. 



B. Front and middle tarsi of male very slightly dilated : Colysibetes Clairv. 



•50 — ^53. Elliptical very slightly convex, above dark brown, shining ; sides 

 of thorax paler ; elytra with a subbasal transverse line, three narrow vittse on 

 each, and the lateral margin pale. Middle and Southern States. Dytiscus 

 calidus Fabr. ; Col. tceniolis Say ; Hydaticus meridionalis Mels. 



23. calidus Aub^. 



Note on the Species of BRACHINUS inhabiting the United States. 

 BY JOHN L. LE CONTE. M. D. 



All the species of Brachinus found within our Territory are very similar in 

 color ; the head, thorax and legs are ferruginous, and the elytra are of a dark 

 blue, blackish, or greenish-blue color ; the under surface of the trunk, and 

 the 3d and following joints of the antennae, vary in color, according to species 

 and individuals, being sometimes nearly black, sometimes of the same color 

 as the head and thorax. The form and sculpture of the thorax differ very 

 much in the various species, and it is upon the characters derived from that 

 region of the body that I have relied principally in distinguishing the forms, 

 which I consider as entitled to rank as species, in the table given below. 



It may be alleged that the synoptic phrases are too short to enable the so- 

 called species to be recognized ; I can only say that as I have endeavored to 

 express the essential differences between the forms that I have recognized, 

 and as the forms, colors and sculpture, except as noted, are identical, any dila- 

 tation of the phrases would be mere surplusage. 



I must also add that I consider the species of this genus very decidedly 

 opinionative, and that I am only impelled to the publication of this note by 

 tlie necessity of giving names to a certain number of recognized forms, and 

 of placing as synonyms some which I formerly considered as distinct, but 

 which increased collections have since shewn to be varieties. • 



* I have dedicate'] this very curious species to Mr. Chr. Drewsen, the distiaguisbad entomolcist 

 of CopenhageD, by whom it was sent to me, with several specimens of C. groenlandicus." 



1862.] 




524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



A. Large species, with the thorax punctured and the hind angles divergent ; 



the elytra costate, gradually widened behind, with the humeri distinct, 

 but rounded : 



Thorax scarcely longer than wide ; sides much rounded in front : 

 •58. Antennae and abdomen not infuscated. Southern and Western States. 



tormentarius htc. 

 •61. Trunk blackish-brown ; middle of metathorax ferruginous ; antennae 

 with the 4th and following joints darker. Southern States. 



alternans Dtj. 



•61. Thorax considerably longer than wide, sides less rounded than in the 



preceding ; abdomen darker at the sides. Southern States. IB. deyrolUi 



Ferte. . . . . . . . . . . strenuus Lee. 



B. Moderate sized species ; elytra gradually widened behind, costate, with the 



humeri indistinct ; antennae and abdomen dark. 

 •45 — 'SS. Thorax elongate, punctured, hind angles not prominent. South- 

 ern States. Var. viridipennis Dcj. ; viridis Lee. ; lecontei Lee. 



perplex us Dej. 



•45. Thorax sparsely punctured, hind angles prominent. Southern and 



Western States. . . . . . . . americanus Lee. 



C. Moderate, or rather large species ; elytra but slightly wider behind, costate, 



with the humeri distinct ; thorax sparsely and finely punctured, with 

 the hind angles prominent ; sides of abdomen a little darker : 



•45 — '55. Thorax very wide in front, very suddenly narrowed behind. 

 Middle and Western States, as far as New Mexico. ballistarius Lee. 



•44 — "50. Thorax more gradually narrowed behind. Found in the whole of 

 the Atlantic district. cyanopterus Lee. ; var. sujfflans Lee. ; perp/exus Lee. ; 

 librator Dej. ; siinilis Lee. . . . . . . fumans Dej. 



D. Smaller species ; elytra broad, wider behind, strongly costate, humeri dis- 



tinct ; thorax opake, rugose and punctured, hind angles slightly promi- 

 nent ; abdomen not infuscated. 



•30. Thorax rather long ; elytra glabrous, the grooves almost with single 

 series of punctures. California and Arizona. Var. lecontei Motsch. 



costipennis Motsch. 



•35. Thorax shorter, sparsely punctured; elytra pubescent at the sides. 

 California. . • . . . . . tschernikhii Mann. 



•35. Thorax shorter, densely punctured; elytra punctulate, pubescent. 

 California and Arizona. . • . . • carinulatus Mot>ch. 



E. Smaller species ; thorax usually sparsely punctured, not longer than wide, 



very strongly constricted behind ; elytra wider behind, convex, humeri 

 distinct. 



a. Hind angles of thorax very prominent : 



•40. Thorax rugous, almost opake ; elytra moderately costate ; beneath 

 dark ferruginous. New Mexico, Arizona and Lower California. 



fi delis Lee. 

 •40. Thorax scarcely rugous, sparsely and strongly punctured ; elytra 

 strongly costate ; abdomen scarcely darker at the sides. Kansas. 



kansanus Lee. 

 •32 — ^37. Tli(#ax sparsely and finely punctured ; elytra scarcely costate : 

 antennae and abdomen usually slightly infuscated. Middle, Western and 

 Southern States. conformisX Lee. ; velox Lee. ; var. ?cephalote$ Dej. 



cordicollis Dej. 



[Dec- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 525 



b. Hind angles of thorax moderately prominent : 



•34 — "37. Antennse, tip of tibiae, tarsi and trunk dark brown ; thorax 

 :<carcel7 punctulate ; elytra scarcely costate. Kansas, stygicornis Say. 



c. Hind angles of thorax very slightly prominent : 



•27 — 'So. Elytra scarcely costate ; antennae and abdomen not infuscated. 

 Middle and Western States, Kansas. cordicollist Lee. . rejectus Lee. 



F. Smaller species ; thorax longer than wide, convex, constricted behind, 



hind angles prominent ; elytra, humeri distinct. 



a. Epipleurfe as usual of the color of the elytra : 



•29. Elytra oblong, scarcely dilated behind ; abdomen not infuscated. Mid- 

 dle States. Aptlnusjanth. Dej. . . . j an t h in i p en nis Lee. 



•36. Elytra broader quadrate, dilated behind, slightly costate; trunk infus- 

 cated. Southern and Western States. • . quadripennis Dej. 



•13 — '25. Elytra dilated behind, not costate ; abdomen dark brown. 



m e d i u s Lee. 



b. Epipleurse pale testaceous ; 



•33 — '39. Thorax less narrowed behind than usual ; sides of metathorax 

 and abdomen, and knees dark. Southern States and Arizona, as far as Colo- 

 rado River lateralis Dej. 



G. Small species ; thorax longer than wide, hind angles not prominent ; elytra 



wider behind, humeri indistinct. 

 •28 — '36. Thorax very broadly rounded on the sides in front ; sides of abdo- 

 men dark. Middle and Southern States, eephalotest Lee. 



ovipennis Lee. 

 a. Thorax more strongly rounded on the sides in front : 

 •30 — "36. Abdomen dark brown. Middle, Southern and Western States. 

 patrueJis Lee. . . . . . . . . conformis Dej. 



•21. Abdomen not infuscated. Middle States. . . pumilio Lee. 



Contributions to Organic DJorphology :— Containing the mathematical imita- 

 tion of the egg of PLAN ORBIS CORNEUS and of EPIOSNIS ; and upon the 

 resemblances between Mathematical, Acoustic, Electric, Optical and Organic 

 ■Figures ; with historical and other remarks. 



BY JOHN WARNER, A. M. 



PREFACE, 

 la a work published several years ago, I endeavored to make some contri- 

 bution to the knowledge of Organic Morphology.* Among other matter, the work 

 contained the results of investigations made to determine the coincidence in 

 form between sections of hen's eggs and a curve there proposed. In the pres- 

 ent paper, it is designed to extend these investigations, and to notice some 

 other subjects of interest. Some use will be made both of original and selected 

 matter contained in the work referred to, and other citations will be added, 

 which seem appropriate in treating a branch of science not yet possessing a 

 classified and independent literature. 



MORPHOLOGICAL LITERATURE. 



?*umerous authorities might be cited, bearing upon the general subject of 

 our research, and containing information and suggestions worthy of study ; 



* studies in Organio Morphology, by John Waruer. J. B. Lipi>incott & Co.. Philadelphia, 1857. 



1862.] 




526 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



but extensive reference to these authorities would be inconsistent with our 

 present limits : many of them, either directly or indirectly, advocate the pos- 

 sibility of a mathematical explanation of the cause of organic formrf. 



Professor Bronn* considers that there is an inconsistency in supposing the 

 organic world alone to be derived from a direct act of creation, whilst all the 

 rest is born and perishes from the effect of general forces eternally immanent 

 in matter. He concludes that all species of animals and vegetables were 

 originally created by a natural force, at present unknown — that they do not 

 owe their origin to a successive transformation of a few primitive forms — and 

 that this force held a most intimate and necessary relation to the forces and 

 events which have controlled the development of the surface of the globe. He 

 thinks that such a hypothetical force would be in entire harmony with the 

 whole economy of nature, and tliat the hypotliesis would not only permit the 

 belief in a Creator presiding over the development of organic nature by means 

 of an intermediate force, but that this conception is more sublime than the 

 idea of a direct supervision, by the Creator, of the succession of plants and 

 animals. Professor Bronn also considers the fundamental form of a plant to 

 be that of an egg placed upright. Investigation of the relation between natu- 

 ral and mathematical ovoid forms might furnish a test for the correctness of 

 this idea, or, if it is well founded, assist in explaining its application. 



Some mathematical writers treat as an evident proposition the ultimate 

 connection between mathematics and the explanation of natural processes.! 

 Fechner undoubtedly encourages this idea, and even proposes, more or less 

 definitely, the adoption of a mathematical classification in physiognomy, cra- 

 niology, and ethnology, f 



Lotze, on tlie other liand, takes the opposite extreme. In one of his more 

 skeptical passages he compares the attempt to discover the laws of organiza- 



••■■ Essai d'une Keponse k la question de Prix, &c. Comptes Rendus, vol. 51, p. 511. 



t The principles of mechauics must be of the greatest imp Ttance for all branches of natural 

 science, (as Aristotle was aware,) because, according to our conception of the changes of the ma- 

 terial world, they must be referred to motion. Dr. H. Burhenne, Grundriss der Uoeheren Anaiyiis, 

 Ca8se!,1849, p. 84. 



Dr. Zeising, and others whom we have cited, refer at length to the works of Pythagoras, Plate, 

 and Aristotle, in order to show that the ancients regarded numbers a.s in some mysterious sense 

 the principia of the uniTerse. The Pythagorean quaternary, s.^ improved by Plato, consists of 

 the celestial numbers 1, 3, 7, 9, of which the sum is 20, antjiof the terrestrial series 2, 4, 6, 8, 

 ■whose sum is likewise 20. These two together make the sacred quaternary 40. The number 

 5, which is not in the quaternary, but is the middle of the whole series from 1 to 9, represents 

 the A'bus, or supremo intelligence. Accitnling to Montucla. the.se numbers and the idea of their 

 mystic importance were derived from the Kgyptians. The ancient Chinese also venerat«d the 

 Pythagorean quaternary, and .iscribed its invention to the emperor Fo-hi (2900 B. C.) Ko-hi was 

 the inventor of the binary arithmetic, ot which he left the notati.in in the Cova. or Figure ot 

 Eight. M. Huo relates that the Chinese still venerate a mysterious book, called the Book of 

 Charges, y-King. The meaning of this book has long been lost. From >I. Hue's description of the 

 64 whole and broken lines of this book, and from Leibnitz's description and interpretation of the 

 Cova, I have little doubt that the y-King pertains to the arithmetical system recorded in the Cova. 

 The tradition of the Chinese, that the )/-King is capable of explaining all things, may, therefore, 

 indicate that the ancient Chinese were not unaware of the importance of number in the order of 

 the universe, and that their sages had conceived the idea of a mathematical explanation of Na- 

 ture, as clearly as such an idea could be conceived in advance of the science of physic^il mathe- 

 matics: possibly they progressed no further than to incorpor.ite the Cova in their religious mys- 

 teries. Montucla, llistoirc des Mathematiques, vol. i. p. 122. Chinese Empire, by M Uuc, 

 London, 1855, vol. i. p. 124. Leibnitz, Memoire de I'Acad. Francaise, vcl. xviii. 1703, p. 85. Dr. 11. 

 Burhenne. Grundriss der Uoeheren Analysis-, Cassel.1849, p. 84. 



J Ueber die Mathematische Behandluug Organischer Cestalten v.cd Processe. Verb. d. Kocnl. 

 Saechs. Gesellsch. Mathemati.sch-Physische Kl., Jarbgang 1S40. 



Mr. Hay has published a method for defining geometrically the shape of the human head ar.d 

 the proportion of its parts. The method is founded on a system of triangles, of which tho angles 

 have certain ratios manifested in the vibrations of musical strings. See D. 11. Hay on the Beau- 

 Jdeal Head of Ancient Greek Art. Trans. Soc. of Arts, vol. i. part 2, New Scrieu. 1847-8. 



The same author has written several works on the Beautiful in Form. His .Natural Principles 

 of Beauty (London and Edinburgh, 1S52) gives aconcise explanation of his geometrical construction 

 of the human figure. The same subject is differently treated bv Dr. A, Zeising, Neue Lehre von 

 den Proportionen des Itfenschlichen Koorpers ; Leipzig, 1854. The student of Morphol(>gy will tx- 

 interested in comparing with these works, Die aus der Arithmetic und Gv'ometrie herausgeboltrn 

 Qruende aur Menechlichen Proportion; Qcorg Lichtenstoger, Nuremberg, 174<j. 



[Pec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 02 i 



tion by the study of organic forms, to the endeavor to decipher the principle 

 or purpose of a complicated machine by the contemplation of its shadow.* He 

 discourages the notion that the shape of the egg is susceptible of a mathemat- 

 i;;al explanation. The form of the egg, he considers, is not the immediate 

 product of a formative tendency, but the mechanical result of a twisting action 

 of the oviduct, and gives as little hope of an explanation of the forming forces 

 as, for example, the shape of a top does of comprehending the law of formation 

 of the person who turned it.f 



MeckelJ accounts for the form of the egg in a similar manner. He cites 

 Thienemann to show that when the egg is forced rapidly through the oviduct, 

 in consequence of persistently chasing the hen, the egg is then deformed, 

 being greatly elongated and without a hard shell. He also alludes to the ex- 

 periments of M. St. Hilaire in proof of the fact that hen's eggs placed verti- 

 cally during incubation either do not come to development or else produce 

 monsters. On the whole, he appears to be of opinion that the form of the 

 egg may not only have a mechanical origin, but may be important as a me- 

 chanical means in determining the form of the embryo. 



OF MATHEMATICAL OVOIDS. 



Fechner adopts the oval of Descartes, proposed by Steiiier, as the true rep- 

 resentative of the form of the egg.§ The elliptic spheroid he considers to be 

 a rough approximation to the true form ; but M. St. Hilaire states that out of 

 six eggs of the Epiornis, sent to France, five were nearly true ellipsoids. || 

 The other had a large and a small end. We shall now consider particularly 

 the curve proposed by ourself to represent the longitudinal section of an 

 egg. This curve belongs under a general formula which includes the ellipse. 

 We shall principally consider a curve having an obtuse and an acute end, and 

 which may be called the kyper-ellipse, and the solid generated by its revob.i- 

 tion, the hyper-ellipsoid.'^ 



Construction of the hyper-ellipse. — Measure the length and thickness of the 

 egg. Draw (Fig. 1, Plate 1) A B, H D, each equal to the length of the egg, 

 and bisecting each other at right angles in C. Make D K equal to the half- 

 thickness of the egg, and on H K describe a semicircle cutting A B in F. 

 Then A B is the axis of the hyper-ellipse, and F is the focus. 



Construct an ellipse (Fig. 2) with the semi-axes F A, F B equal respectively 

 to the same distances in Fig. 1, and draw any radius vector F P. 



In Fig. 3 draw B F, F A, as in Fig. 1, and make the angle AFP equal to 

 twice the angle A F P of Fig. 2 ; also make F P equal to the same in Fig. 2. 

 The point P is then a point of the hyper-ellipse. In a similar manner any re- 

 quired number of points may be found, and the curve traced through them 

 by hand. Instead of beginning the construction at A, we may commence at B. 

 making the angle B F P equal to twice the same of Fig. 2, and the radius; 

 F P the same. 



*Allgemein^ Phy3iologie Jes Koerpirlicheo L^bens. Leipzig, 1S51, p. 328. 



t Ibid. p. 335. Thi' labors of Ilanstein and Wright ia iarestigatiug the law of phyllotaxis — al- 

 though they do not prove msthematically the cause of phyllotaxis, but rather pertaia to its tfiJeo- 

 logioil 8ignifican;:e — appear to me to contain remarkable applications of mathematics to the 

 study of Organic Morphology, an.l to take much from the general force of Litze's criticism. Han- 

 steia uebe.'- den ZuHammenhang der Blattstellung mit dem Ban des dikotylen Holzringes. ,Mo- 

 natsber. d. Koenl. I'reuss. Ak.d. Wiss., Berlin. 1857, p. 105. Wright on the mos; thjrough, uniforai 

 distribution of poiu';s about an Axis, Mathematical M -athly, April, 1859. 



J Die Bilduug der faer partielle Kurchung bestimiuten iiier der Voegel, 4c. Zeitsohr. f. Wies. 

 Zoologie, vol. 3, 1851, p. 432. 



§ We may refer the reader to Mr. Ilay's PrinL-iples of Symmetrical Beauty, and to Purdie en 

 Form and Sound (Edinburgh, 1859), for information concerning the composit« ellipAo — a figure 

 which geems to otTor or to suggest means for closely imitating the forms at various eggs. 



J Note sur des oBseinerits et des oeufs trouvfe! a MaJaga.scar, dans des alluvions modemes. et 

 provenant d'un oiseau gigantesque; par M. Isidore Lieoff.oy-Suint-Hilaire. Comptes Kenans. 

 vols, xxxii. p. 101 ; xxxtx. p. 83;^ ; slii. p. 315, and xliii. p. 51S. 



If This curve may be termed the hyper-ellipse, because its radius vector ie a power of the radiu.s 

 vector of an ellipse, taken from the fj:us, or be-^ame ii-s r.idius i.<i derived from the ellipse as i:i 

 the following construction. ^ 



1862.] 




528 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The curve can also be constructed by drawing F P from any assumed pole 

 at F, at any angle with an assumed axis A B. Then, knowing the length and 

 thickness of the egg and the angle AFP, the length F P can be calculated by 

 the aid of a proper formula, hereafter given, and transferred to the drawing. 



COMPARISON OF EGGS WITH THE HYPER-ELLIPSOID. 



Egg of Planorhis corneus. — The example just given to show the constnic- 

 tion of the hyper-eUipse (Fig. 3) presents a good imitation of the magnified 

 drawing of an egg of Planorbis corneus.* It is remarkable that the focus F 

 of the theoretical egg falls, as nearly as can be readily observed, in the centre 

 of the vitellus, according to the engraving given by Jacquemin. The magni- 

 fied egg of the engraving measures, say, length 1*63 inches, thickness 1'31. 

 The distance B F is found by calculation -45+. 



Egg of Epiornis. — The cast of the egg of Epiornis belonging to the Acade- 

 my of Natural Sciences in this city is, I doubt not, from the pointed egg de- 

 scribed by M. St. Hilaire.f A longitudinal section of this cast was obtained 

 by cutting a templet to fit closely around it, then tracing the form of the egg 

 from the templet. The first section thus obtained was not quite symmetrical 

 with respect to the long axis. A second section, taken on a plane at right 

 angles to the plane of the first, was more nearly symmetrical. The cross-sec- 

 tion of the cast measured so nearly circular, that the small difference in the 

 diameter of the sections taken may be disregarded. For the purposes of calcu- 

 lation we have taken M. St. Hilaire's dimensions reduced to inches, — length 

 12-75G, thickness 8-859. 



Fig. 4 represents the theoretical egg on a scale of one-fourth. The follow- 

 ing tables exhibit the dimensions of the two real sections and of the theoretical 

 section. Each real section is divided by the axis into two parts not entirely 

 symmetrical. The radii vectores of each part are given for various polar 

 angles. The distance from the obtuse end of the egg to the line of greatest 

 thickness is not involved in the construction of the theoretical ovoid. Tlxis 

 distance as measured on the egg should be compared with the same as found 

 by construction. In the tables it is designated by B' -f- /i cos y. 



TABLE I. 



MEASURED VALUES FOR REAL EGG. 



Note. — The distance from the large end of the egg to the greatest cross- 

 section =: B' + /> cos > = 6 inches. The radius for a polar angle of 56° 34' 

 is 5-39, average of four dimensions. 



* Mgmoire sur I'Histoire du Planorbis cornens, par Emile Jacquemin. Nova Acta Acad. C. 

 Leopold, vol. xviii. p. 638. 



t The agreement in size is satisfactory, and the egg is marlied with the nnme of Dr. TTarren, 

 who relates that a east of the pointed egg was presented to him. (Fossil Impressions, &c.. BoEton, 

 18.54.) The length which he gives for the egg is incorrect. The mistake prcbably arose iri>m a 

 typographical error, which is corrected in Coinptes Rendus, vol. xl. p. 519. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



529 



TABLE II. 



CALCPLATED VALUES FOR THEORETICAL EGG. 



Note. — The length and thickness of the egg are the same for both tables, 

 viz. : length 12*76 — ; thickness S'86. The polar angle at the point of greatest 

 thickness is designated by y, but has not the same value in each table, being 

 a measured value in Table I. and a calculated value (56'^ 34') in Table II. 

 The distance B' -j- /> cos y for this angle is, by calculation, 5-79, 



By these tables we perceive that the first part of the first section agrees 

 very closely, from the apex to the widest part, with the theoretical curve. 

 The second part is less satisfactory. The average real section would nowhere 

 difi'er from the theoretical curve by much more than the thickness of the ego'- 

 shell (about 12-100 inch). ° 



ON THE SIGNIFICATION OF THESE COMPARISONS. 



Position of the Vitellus. — A belief in the adaptability of polar formulse to 

 explain some processes of nature was somewhat vaguely expressed by Gran- 

 dus. James Bernoulli seems to have been strongly, though vaguely, impressed 

 with the idea of an important meaning in the logarithmic spiral. Moseley 

 and Naumann have demonstrated its existence in several shells, and similar 

 results have since been obtained.* Possibly the mechanical properties of this 

 spiral are involved among the causes which give the first direction to the wind- 

 ings of shells. Naumann suggests that all spirally wound coiichylia may begin 

 with a logarithmic spiral. The law of the growth of the animal may then, 

 perhaps, be subsequently instrumental in determining the form of the shell, f 

 Lotze says, in discussing the mathematical explanation of organic forms, that 

 in pure mathematics it is not absolutely essential that the origin of co-ordi- 

 nates be in any particular place, but where an explanation of the nature of 

 phenomena is required, the origin must be taken where, in the Real, the 

 centre of emanation of action resides ; the direction and connection of the 

 co-ordinates must correspond with those of the operating forces. J 



The position of the vitellus in the pole of the theoretical egg may, possi- 

 bly, exhibit that coincidence of mathematical and organic s^'stem which is 

 intended by Lotze. It would be desirable to have correct observations of the 

 positions of diflferent parts within the egg, in order to attempt the discovery 



* Grandu?, A Collection of Geometrical Flowers: Abridged Phil. Trans., rol. vi. p. 67, 1723. 

 Bernoulli. Leipzig Acts., 1692. Moseley, Phil. Tr.ans., 3838. Xaumann. Abh. d. Jikblonowskigchen 

 Ge.sellsc.b., Leipzig, 1846. Also Abh. d. Math. Phys. Kl. d. K. S. Gesellsch., Leipzig, 1852. Sand- 

 berser. ueber die Spiralen von Ammonites, &c^ Zeitschr. d. Deutsch. Geol. Gesellsch.. vol x 1858 

 p. 440. ■ ' 



t I am not aware to what extent the views of Moseley concerning the growth of shells have 

 been adopted by naturalists. Naumann, as far as he expre.sses any opinion, seems to a^ree with 

 Moseley on this subject. To me, Moseley's explanation of the growth of shells, and of the man- 

 ner in which their mathematical properties suit the life and growth of the animal, appear very 

 interesting and important, and, did our limits permit, would well deserve to be noticed here at 

 length. From the paper of Sandberger's just cited, I am led to believe that the determination of 

 the equations of the windings of shells is now recognized by scientific conchologists as a valuable 

 descriptive method. 



I Fhysiologie, p. 330. 



1862.] 



37 




530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



whether any of these parts have a position remarkable in a mathematical 

 point of view, and which might, therefore, possibly suggest something im- 

 portant in regard to further researches.* 



Cubical contents. — The volume of the hyper-ellipsoid is equal to the solidity of 

 a prolate ellipsoid having the same length and thickness. f Hence it appears 

 that a definite quantity of material fit for the composition of an egg might, con- 

 sidered geometrically without regard to other conditions, take the form of 

 either an ellipsoid or hyper-ellipsoid egg ; the length and the thickness being 

 the same in each case. It seems probable that either form might suit the 

 structure of those parts of the bird which anatomists believe to be most directly 

 concerned in giving shape to the egg. I do not certainly know whether the same 

 hen can lay eggs of both forms. Among several hyper-ellipsoid eggs, said to 

 be from the same hen, was found one which most observers would probably 

 consider ellipsoidal. A gentleman who once took much interest in the 

 breeding of fowls states that, whilst engaged in this pursuit, he was able from 

 the appearance of the eggs, but not judging alone by the shape and size, to 

 recognize with considerable certainty the eggs of particular birds and of par- 

 ticular breeds. In his opinion, the eggs of the same hen would appear, to 

 ordinary observa.tion, to be of nearly the same size and shape : sometimes, how- 

 ever, an unusually large egg containing two yolks will be produced. My 

 limited observation is, in general, in favor of the supposition of uniformity of 

 size and shape among the eggs of the same individual. I have, besides meas- 

 uring some hen's eggs, carefully inspected the eggs found in several nests of 

 -wild birds. 



Standard of comparison for shape. — As far as I am aware, no mathematical 

 standard of comparison for the shape of eggs has been fixed. Thus, for ex- 

 ample, if we had an egg intermediate, as the term would generally be ap- 

 plied, between the ideal form above found for the egg of Epiornis, and a true 

 ellipsoid having the same diameters, it would be left to the judgment alone 

 to decide which ideal form should be preferred as a representative of the egg. 



M. St. Hilaire does not give measurements to show the agreement between 

 the ellipsoidal eggs of Epiornis and true ellipsoids. Of some of them, he 

 says their resemblance to each other was so great that one might have readily 

 been mistaken for the other. From this description I doubt whether these 

 eggs resembled ellipsoids more nearly than the present egg of Epiornis re- 

 sembles the hyper-ellipsoid, t 



RESEMBLANCES BETWEEN MATHEMATICAL, ACOUSTIC, ELECTRIC, 

 OPTICAL AND ORGANIC FIGURES. 



The mathematical laws of the propagation of light are shown to be partic- 

 ular cases of the more general laws of vibratory motion in any elastic medium 

 composed of attracting and repelling molecules. § It would, therefore, seem 

 that forms similar to those shown in the polarization of light, and in other 



* I am not informed how far naturalists hare considered this subject. Some experiments cf my 

 own. made on hen's eggs, in order to ascertain the relation between the size of the yolk and other 

 dimensions of the egg, and also whether the centre of the yolk more nearly coincides with the 

 centre of gravity of the egg or with the centre of the axis, resulted in gaining some preliminary 

 experience in the method of observation, but did not establi-^h any thing certainin regard to the 

 object of research. 



t The rule for computation is, Multiply the square of the thickness by the length, and the prc>- 

 duct by -5236. The result is the .solidity. 



t Since writing the above I have seen, in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution, the cast 

 of an egg of Kpiornis (the egg sent from Madagascar in 18.50), but have not had an opportunity of 

 closely examining it. The date indicates that it is from a cast of the ellipsoidal egg described ly 

 M. St. Ililaire in his first memoir, and which accompanied the egg we have endeavored to imitate 

 in Fig. 4. Without a careful measurement of the cast, it would, in my opinion, be unsafe to ccn- 

 clude that the egg in question is more nearly ellipsoidal than its fellow is byper-clUpsoidal. 



i Encyclopedia Bvitannica, Boston cd., art. Optics, p. 546. 



[D 



ec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 531 



optical experiments, might result from the vibrations of other substances 

 which in their vibrations may follow the same or similar laws. This may 

 possibly be the reason of some resemblances of the kind we shall now consider. 



Construction of the Hyperasttr. — Figures resembling star-fish may be derived 

 from the ellipse by a construction similar to that given for Fig. 3. Both con- 

 structions can be included under a general mathematical formula.* To con- 

 struct the hyperaster with five points, make the ellipse (Fig. 5) with the 

 semi-axis F B equal to the short radius F B (Fig. 6) of the star, and with 

 the longer semi-axis F A equal to the long radius F A of the star. Then, be- 

 ginning at B, proceed as for the construction of Fig. 3, except that the angle 

 B F P of Fig. 6 is to be always taken equal to two-fifths of B F P in Fig. 5. 

 When the radius F P of Fig. 5 has passed through a revolution of 90°, it will 

 coincide with F A, and P will then fall upon A. During the same time, the 

 radius F P of Fig. 6 will pass over two-fifths of 90°, or 36°, and will reach A. 

 When the radius of Fig. 5 reaches F C, it will have passed over 180°, and in 

 Fig. 6 the radius, then at C, will have passed over two-fifths of 180°, or 72", 

 which is the fifth part of the circumference of the circle. The arm B A C F of the 

 star is therefore derived from the semi-ellipse BAG. A repetition of the same 

 process will derive the next arm of the star from the semi-ellipse C D B ; and 

 so on, until the five arms of the star are completed.! By means of this con- 

 struction, star-fish or other organic bodies resembling them can be imitated. 

 Returning to Figs. 2 and 3, it will be observed that, starting at B, the entire 

 Fig. 3 is generated from the semi-ellipse BAG, in the same way that the arm 

 -B A C F of Fig. 6 is derived from the semi-ellipse BAG, Fig. 5. Viewed in this 

 manner, the egg, Fig. 3, appears a one-armed star-fish. Whether or not this 

 conception may have any significance in nature, it appears remarkable to 

 find two difl'erent organic forms thus classed under the same mathematical 

 formula. Some of the figures known as acoustic figures, produced by the vi- 

 bration of elastic plates, can also be imitated. Figures resembling Fig. 6 are 

 given by Chladni in his treatise. Possibly the acoustic figures might be pro- 

 duced on a scale sufficiently large to test their agreement with the mathemat- 

 ical figures, by measurement ; and hence it could be, perhaps, determined 

 whether these truly represent the former. 



Interesting resemblances can be traced between the optical and acoustic 

 figures, and between these and curves similar in their construction to those we 

 have described, if not always precisely of the same construction. The follow- 

 ing is of the same general construction as the previous. By taking the ellipse 

 Fig. 2, and making the angle B F P in the derived figure always equal to one- 

 half of the same in the ellipse, we derive a curve similar to Fig. 7. Figs. 8 

 and 9 represent an optical figure and an organic form, having a resemblance 

 to this.J 



♦Studies in Organic Morphology, Formula 2, p. 32. We propose to call the curve whose equa- 

 tion is p = = — — —„ the elliptoaster, because the equation resembles that of the ellipse, atsd the 



'^ 1— e cos ke -^ 



curve itself may represent a star. The name hyperaster may be given to the curve whose radius 

 is a power ur root uf the radius of the elliptoaster. 



t In actual constructions, it will be snfScient to derive one arm of the star, and then, by means 

 of tracing-paper. t<} dispose five such arms around the centre 1'. Stars of any desired number cf 

 points may l>e thus constructed ; the angle B F P of the star must be to the angle B F P of the 

 ellipse as the number 2 is to the number of points in the star. 



X See Encyclopedia Britannica, Boston cd., art. Optics, p. 672, for Fig. 9. For Fig. 8 see Zeit*chr. 

 fiir Wiss. Zoolcgie, Leipzig, 1854, vol. v. Plate XIV. Fig. 34. These resemblances could be followed 

 to a greater extent. The writer has collected many drawings of mathematical lines, organic ob- 

 jects, optical, ac justie. and electric figures, but must omit fui ther notice of them on the prcfont 

 occasion. By large collections of this hind, and by diligent comparison of their materials, pc-me- 

 thing may, perhaps, be elicited which will establish a reliable foundation fir the study of Organic 

 Morphology as a mathematical bciencc. 



1862.] 




632 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF * ■ 



An electrical figure having a strong resemblance to an egg may be seen on 

 Plate III. of Lichtenberg's figures.* 



M. Cornay considers electricity to be the radical universal generator. He 

 endeavors to illustrate this idea by comparing positions assumed by electric- 

 ally charged needles to the positions of parts of plants and animals. For 

 this purpose he has numerous engravings. f His description of the circula- 

 tion of the electric fluid, and of the effect of it in producing the nervation of 

 leaves and the spiral arrangement of leaves around the trunk of the plant, 

 reminds us of similar suggestions of Grandus to account for the disposition of 

 the petals of a flower. But M. Cornay's resort to experiment to test his opinions 

 is an important step in the right direction, for which he deserves the thanks 

 of morphologists, although as yet his experiments cannot be considered 

 conclusive proof of the correctness of his views. 



EXPLANATION OF THE PREVIOUS CONSTRUCTIONS— CUBATURE 

 OF THE HYPER-ELLIPSOID. t 



Construction of the Hyper-ellipse and Hi/peraster. — Let (Fig.^3) the axis A B, 

 or length of the egg, = 2 a, and the greatest double ordinate, or thickness 

 of the egg, = 2 m. We have shown, in our work already referred to, that 

 F A = a -f \/ a (a — m) and F B = a — \/ a (a — m) : it is now required 

 to find these distances by construction. By the construction given for Fig. 1, 

 D K = m, C D = a, therefore C K ^ a — m. But, by Geometry, C F is a 

 mean proportional between C H and C K, that is, between a and a — m. Hence 

 C F = y/ a {a — m) ; whence FA = CA-fCF = a-|- \^ a {a — m), and 

 FB = CB — CF = a — \^ a (a — m) ; which was required. 



We have further shown that the radius vector of the hyper-ellipse is equal 

 to the radius vector of an ellipse referred to the centre, and in which the polar 

 angle is one-half that of the hyper-ellipse. This is the ellipse shown in Fig. 

 2, and hence the construction before given for Fig. 3 is evident. By referring 

 to our work, it will be seen that the hyperaster. Figs. 6 and 7, may also be 

 constructed from an ellipse in a similar manner, taking care that their polar 



*■ Commentationes Societatis, Ac. Goettingen, 1778. vol. i. For a ctirious resemblance to a tree, 

 produ'^eil by the action of lightning, see Mr. Charles Tumlinson on Lightning Figures, Edinburgh 

 New Phil. Journal, vol. xiv. No. 2. Oct. 1861, and vol. xv. No. 1, Jan. 1862. 



f Principes de Physiologic et Elements de Morphogenie Generale, par J. E. Cornay (de Roche- 

 iirt). Paris, 18.53, pp. 112, 191, 212 — 215. M. Cornay h.is labored earnestly and industriously to 

 promote the knowledge of Morphology. Some important propositions which he confidently as- 

 sumes appear to us still to want satisfactory proof. Thus, for example, because the shape of an 

 insect agrees with the outline of a cluster of electrified needles, he appears to be satisfied that he 

 has found in the action of electricity, or of some hypothetical fluid, the true cause of the organic 

 form. 



1 For certain formulae which will be neces.sairy in this and the following investigations, see 

 Studies in Organic Morph jlogy, pp. 32, 33, -10, 41. The curves now to be discussed belong to the 

 general form 



,-/ p y. 



P ~ V^l — e cos /.- ej ' 

 ■wherein p is the semi-parameter, and e the eccentricity, of iin ellipse. For the hyper-ellipse, 



k = l.n = h- In Fig. sa- = 5, n z: i. In Fig. 7, ^- = 4, n = i The equation P = - ^ _ f^^^ ^. g 



represents an immovable orbit substituted for an elliptical orbit revolving about its focus, Prop. 

 XLIII. B. I., Newton's Priucipia, and Wright's Commentary on the Principia, London. 1828, vol.ii. 

 p. 24.5. Curves of the sort in question may be produced by revolving an ellipse, under various con- 

 ditrons, whilst a describing p'>int revolves in the ellipse, gome years since, I exhibited to the 

 Pottsville Scientific Association a mechanical arr.ingement for producing such figures. Suardis's 

 Geometric Pen is also an interesting instrument for describing curves. The joints of the pen remind 

 us of the joints in the limbs of animals, and furni.sh a hint as to a mathematical conception of 

 the motion of <he limbs. See Adams's Geometrical and Graphical Essays, London, 1813, p. 151. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 533 



angle has the proper proportion to that of the ellipse, in order to derive the 

 number of arms or rays desired.* 



Cuhature of the Hjper-ellipsoid. — Let F, Fig. 10, be the pole, P M an infini- 

 tesimal arc, and P F M an elementary triangle of any plane curve, referred 

 to the axis F N, which is also the axis of revolution for the solid. 



The centre of gravity, G, of the elementary triangle P F M, is on D Ct, 

 drawn parallel to the side P M, and so situated that F D is two-thirds of the 

 radius F P, = | p. When the side P M vanishes, F P will coincide with F M, 

 and the distance from F to G will then equal F D = | p, and the angles M F N, 

 G F N, PEN will all be equal, and each = 6. The distance G N will be 

 F D sin & ^ 2 p sin 5 ; and the distance described by G during a revolution 

 of the elementary triangle P F M about the axis F N will beFD2;r:=i rr a 



3 r 



sin 6. The area of the elementary triangle is, however, l p- c?i, and the 

 solidity of the conical sheet generated by a revolution of P F M, which is the 

 differential of the solid of revolution, will be, by Guldin's Formula, 



rfV=:| rtpSinS. Ipi (79 = 1 5r p3 sin a <ZS (1) 



In the present case this becomes 



^ • a i 



«^ sin o , p ( — »- e sin 6 \ 



dY = i^ -3^5=-i.5 {—^ AclB: 



(1 — ecose)- ^ ^2(1 — ecosS)-'^ 



1 



in which last — dh is the differential of the radius vector : ; 



2(1 — e cos 6)- 

 so that we have, by substitution, for the solidity of the whole hyper-ellipsoid, 



V= f -i^.^d? (2) 



If the radius for S = be denoted by f' and the radius for 6 = ^ by /' , this 

 equation gives 



v = i ^^{p'-n (3) 



* We may here call attention to the feet that the radius vector of the hyper-ellipse, for the 

 extremity of the greatest orJinate, is p =.yam, that is, this rauius is a meau proportioaa! between 

 the half-length and half-width of the figure. This is interesting because Dr. Zeising aiopts the 

 mean proportion as a general morphological law; but this proportion nf itself cannot bj satisfac- 

 tory : we require some rule for knowing what objects or parts of objects are to be thus compareii. 

 As long as no such rule exists, the comparisons may often seem arbitrary. Dr. Zeising proposes, 

 for the egg-curve, tj divide the length into two parts, say a' the greater anl m' the iesser ; then 

 m' will also represent the half thickness, and we shall have the proportion a' -}- »k' : a' : : a' : m', 



whence a' =. y m' (a' -\- m). It is not, however, shown by him that this meau pr>>portion is neces- 

 sarily more significant in Morphology than p =:ya ;u above mentioned (Xeue Lehre, p. 22S)- 

 Dr. Zeising"s application (Xeue Lehre, p. 361) of the extreme and mean ratio, or golden section, ti> 

 the division of the circle in phyllotaxis, has received a remarkable confirmation as a law of nature, 

 by the lab.jrs of Hanstein and Wright, before cited. Ilis applicition of this ratio to the relatii'ns 

 of the planetary system seem to mv worthy of close study : but priwf is required of a similar 

 significance of this ratio in a.«tronomy and in botany, before we can a.«sume that there is an entire 

 identity between the laws which regulate both the planetary and the phyllotactic systems. 

 (Xeue Lehre, p. 32". XormalTerhaltniss, ic, Leipzig, 1850, pp. 2, 45.) 



1862.] 




534 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



But we have seen (Fig. 3) that / = F A = a + v^a { a —mj and /' — F B 



= a — "^ a { a — m); hence / — /'' = 2 v^ a ( a — m). Further, in our 



ni'^ a ^a (a — m) 



former work, we have shown that p = r, ' and e ^ 2 — 5 ~ ; 



p ?n~ a P 



hence — =5 . . Substituting these values of/ — /^ and of — 



e " ^a (a — m) e 



in equation (3), there results 



\ = iH m" a .■..(4) 



which is the volume of a prolate ellipsoid whose semi-transverse axis is a and 

 semi-conjugate m. 



The further discussion of the hyper-ellipse has led us to some interesting 

 formulae, which, whether this curve is really important in Morphology or not, 

 appear worthy of attention in a mathematical point of view. These formulae 

 we hope to present in a subsequent paper. 



CONCLUDING REMARKS. 



The coincidence in form between organic outlines and mathematical figures 

 i.s a subject of difficult intf^rpretation. It will, therefore, be sufficient for me, 

 without expressing a confident opinion as to the meaning of such resemblances, 

 to say that my study of the subject has induced the belief that all the resem- 

 blances of this kind which have been found are not mere accidental coinci- 

 dences, but that some of them are the results of a mathematical arrangement 

 in nature. The reason or the fitness of this arrangement, I am inclined to 

 think, is explicable mathematically, at least to a greater extent than has been 

 generally supposed, and the search for such an explanation I conceive to be a 

 legitimate effort of science. I would, therefore, encourage the collection of 

 drawings of organic objects and of mathematical figures, together with other 

 materials for study, in order to combine facts as they appear, and prepare 

 for the discussion of definite qixestions which may be suggested. Works or 

 memoirs devoted to the measurement of organic products, constituents, and 

 combinations, or of organic functions, as measured by phenomena of produc- 

 tion, of motion or duration, or by the evolution or abstraction of force, may 

 probably be useful in furnishing data for the study of the cause of organic 

 forms. But we shall not prescribe rules in this respect. Of late years many 

 researches of this kind have been made, and in several cases by naturalists 

 or physiologists who have not only united mathematical ability to other ac- 

 quirements, but have left the records of their labor in the shape of mathe- 

 matical formulae. Some of these formulae may become useful in studying the 

 cause of organic forms. 



For some time the writer has been engaged in collecting materials of the 

 kind described. The preparation of this paper was undertaken from a desire 

 to render useful the labor incurred in the collection ; but circumstances have 

 prevented as full a treatment of the subject as we could have wished. Many 

 of the authors cited deserve more attention than we have been able here to 

 give to them, and others have been left unnoticed because our limits did not 

 permit us to speak of them as they deserve. On another occasion we hope to 

 return to our subject under more favorable circumstances. 



In submitting this paper to the reader, I have endeavored to make the best 

 selection of matter for general perusal, and to supply some desirable refer- 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



euces for the use of students who have paid less attention than myself to the 

 subject.* 



In concluding, I desire to express my thanks to several members of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences who have assisted and encouraged me, and es- 

 pecially to Dr. Jos. Leidy. 



A Review of the TERNS of North America. 

 BY ELLIOTT COUES. 



Considerable difference has prevailed among ornitbological writers with re- 

 gard to the relationships of many of the North American Slerninyi with the 

 representative species of Europe. Having at command a very extensive series 

 of specimens from both continents, I have instituted a careful comparison of 

 the more or less intimately related species, believing that the results of 

 such an investigation would not prove unacceptable to ornithologists. While 

 this has been the principal aim of the present paper, I have endeavored to pre- 

 sent fairly the data tending to determine some other points of synonymy and 

 relationship which even at this late day remain open to discussion ; and to 

 give such stages of plumage as are not already too well known to require no- 

 tice. The paper is not to be considered in any sense as a monograph ; I have 

 endeavored to express its character in its title. 



I am under particular obligations to Mr. G. N. Lawrence and Mr. D. G. El- 

 liot, for the opportunity of examining several unique and typical specimens, 

 and unusual stages of plumage, of which the museum of the Smithsonian In- 

 stitution does not contain examples. 



Family LARIDjE. 



Subfamily STERNIN.^. 



Section STERNER. 



Genus GELOCHELIDON Brehm. 



Gelochelidon, Brehm, Vog. Deutsch. 1830. Type S. anglica, Mont. 

 Laropis, Wagler, Isis, 1832, p. 1225. Same type. 



Char. — Bill shorter than the head, extremely robust, not very acute ; its 

 height at base nearly a third of its total length along culmen ; prominence at 

 symphysis well marked, but not very acute, situated so far back as to make 

 the gonys equal in length to the rami, reckoning from the termination of the 

 feathers on the side of the mandible. Culmen very convex ; gonys straight ; 

 commissure gently curved. Wings exceedingly long, and acute ; each feather 

 a full inch longer than the next. Tail rather short, contained 2.^ times in the 

 wing ; in form deeply emarginate, but its lateral feathers without the elonga- 

 tion of ^Siierna. Feet long and stout ; tarsus a little shorter than the bill, ex- 

 ceeding the middle toe and claw. Hind toe well developed ; inner shorter 



* Several authors not mentioned in our former work may here be briefly cited. 



Borellns, De Motu Animalium. 



Camper, Beobachtuugen der Berlinischen Gesell-sihaft, vol. i. 17S7. 



Von dem Fliige der Voegcl, Sehrifteu der Berlinischen Gesell-scbaft, Vol. ii. 1781, p. 214. 



Mayer, Das aufrccbt Stehen. Muelltu 's Archiv, vol. xx. 1853, p. 9. 



Fick, Ueber die Gestaltiing der Gelenkflaechen. .Mueller's Arcbiv, 1853, Tol.xx.p. 657. 



Schuebler, Bedeutung der Mathematik fuer die Naturgeschichte. Jahreshette des Vereins fuer 

 Yaterlandskunde, Stuttgart, 1849. 



Dr. J. Aiken Meigs. Relation of Atomic Heat to Crystalline Form, vol. iii. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sc . 

 Philadelphia, 3.S55-5S, p. 105. 



Prof. Popoff, Description de la Courbc fruiforme. Bulletin de la Soci6t6 des Naturalistes de 

 Moscou, 1869, part i. p. 283. 



Zeising, Ueber die Metamorphnsen in den Verhaeltnis.sen der mcnschlichcn Qestalt. Acta 

 Academise Cesarese LeopoUUno-Carolina;, vol. x.xvii. part ii. 



1862.] 




536 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



than outer ; interdigital membranes deeply incised, especially the inner. Tail 

 and rump concolor with the back. Size moderate. 



Gelochelklon is a well-marked generic form of the Sierninx, embracing several 

 species agreeing in their short, very robust bills, exceedingly long wings, length- 

 ened tarsi, and short tail, — which latter never attains the deeply-forked shape 

 of typical Sternx. It differs in coloration above from most of the other genera 

 of Terns, in having the pearl blue mantle continued over the rump and tail. 



The name Gelochelidon was proposed by Brehm two years before Wagler 

 instituted his genus Larojns. Both are founded upon the same type, — S. an- 

 glica, Mont. 



Gelochelidon anglica Bp. ex Mont. 



Sterna anglica, Montagu, and of authors. 



Thilasseus anglicus, Boie, Isis, 1822, p. 563. 



Laropis anglica, Wagler, Isis, 1832, p. 1225. 



Gelochelidon anglica, Bp. Corap. List, 1838, p. 61. 



Gelochelidon palustris, Macgill., Man. Orn., 1842, ii. p. 237. 



Sterna aranea. Wilson, Am. Orn. Lawrence, Gen. Rep., 1858, p. 859. 



Gelochelidon aranea, Bonap., Comp. List, 1838, p. 61. 



DiAG. — Sterna rostro breve, robustissimo, nigro ; dorso caerulescente-perlacto, 

 uropygio caudaque concoloribus ; remigibus primariis argentato-griseis, vix 

 albo intus marginatis, nisi basin versus; corpore subtus albo, pedibus nigris. 



Habitat. — Atlantic Coast of America, from Massachusetts southward. Europe. 



This species differs from all the other Terns of North America, except Sterna 

 antillarum, in having the rump and tail of the same color with the back. Its 

 primaries differ from other species — though approaching nearest to Thalasseus 

 caspius — in having the inner webs white for a comparatively short space; and 

 the white is not pure, nor is there a very trenchant line of division between it 

 and the dark portions of the feathers. 



I have not a sufBcient number of skins before me for a perfectly satisfactory 

 comparison of the birds of the two continents, but, so far as I can judge, I am 

 decidedly inclined to agree with Audubon in opinion, that no difference exists. 

 I have minutely compared the specimens before me, and found them absolutely 

 identical in every particular of size, form and color. 



The American bird was first described by Wilson, under the name of Sterna 

 aranea, that author, perhaps, considering it distinct from, but much more pro- 

 bably being unaware of the existence of, the European bird. It was very 

 properly referred by subsequent American writers, — Nuttall, Audubon, and Bona- 

 parte up to 1 838,— to the latter. At that date, in his Comparative List, Bonaparte 

 distinguishes it from the European bird under the name of Gelochelidon aranea, 

 and his example has been generally followed by writers since that time. 



Genus THALASSEUS Boie. 



Thalasseus, Boie, Isis, 1822, 563. Type S. caspia, Pall. 



Hydroprognc, Kaup, Sk. Ent. Eur. Thierw., 1829, 71. Same type. 



Sylochelidon, Brehm, Vog. Deutsch. 1830. Same type. 



Helopus, Wagler, Isis, 1832, 1224. Same type. 



Actochelidon, Kaup, Sk. Ent. Eur. Thierw., 1829, 31. Type S. cantiaca, Gni. 



Ch. — Size very large, large, or moderate ; general form more or less robust ; 

 a decided occipital crest. Bill as long as, or longer than, the head, robust, 

 height at base a third to a fourth the length of culmen. Culmen variable in 

 amount of curvature ; position of the angle at symphysis variable. Wings 

 moderately long (for this subfamily); pointed and acute ; but the first primary 

 not surpassing the second by as much as the latter surpasses the third. Tail 

 moderate or short; in the type of the genus very short, being contained three 

 times in the wing, and but moderately emarginate ; in other species more 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 537 



elongated and more deeply forked, and contained only about twice in the wing. 

 Feet short and stout, black; tarsi about two-thirds the bill, or rather less; as 

 long as, or slightly longer than, the middle toe and claw. Webs moderately 

 incised, the inner the most so. Hind toe very short. 



This genus, as at present constituted, is chiefly distinguished from Sterna by 

 its large size and general robust form, stout bill and feet, and (in typical spe- 

 cies) much shorter and less forked tail. In the preceding diagnosis I have 

 been obliged to define the genus with considerable latitude from the somewhat 

 dissimilar types at present retained in it. Thus, if we take the Th. caspius, 

 and Th. ca/iiiacus, v;hich may be considered as representing the two extremes of 

 form, we shall find great discrepancies in such important features as shape and 

 robustness of bill, amount of emargination of tail, &c. ; and regarding these 

 extremes alone, might well be inclined to separate them. Examination, how- 

 ever, of intermediate species, such as T. regius and elegans, of North America. 

 T. veloz, of Europe, &c., will show so gradual a transition in nearly every 

 feature, from one extreme to the other, that it becomes exceedingly difficult to 

 draw a line which shall naturally divide the group into two or more genera. 

 In view of the above facts, I prefer, for the present at least, to retain the several 

 species under a single genus, as they certainly do differ, markedly, from Sterna 

 in important characteristics, although presenting the above discrepancies among 

 themselves. 



It is not impossible, however, that T. caspius, with one or two other very 

 closely allied species from various parts of the world, may be, without impro- 

 priety, separated genericallj- from the others. This species is typical of a 

 ■ group, all intimately allied, which are pre-eminently distinguished by their ex- 

 ceedingly large, high, robust bills, very stout feet, remarkably short tails, — the 

 lateral feathers of which are scarcely at all elongated, and are not tapering nor 

 acuminate, — and general large powerful form. The genus might, by the exclu- 

 sion of this form, be greatly restricted, and much more rigidly defined. 



Of the five synonyms given at the head of this article, all, with the exception 

 of Actochelidon, (the type of which is S. cantiaca, Gm.) are based upon 5. cas- 

 pius, Pallas. Of these Thalasseus, of Boie, has priority in point of date, and 

 is the name to be adopted for the genus. Boie's genus, however, is considered 

 to be based upon S. caspius, merely from the fact of that species being the first 

 mentioned, no particular type being indicated. In the event of the separation 

 of iS". caspius and its intimate allies, above suggested, it might be well to apply 

 the name Hydroprogne to the restricted group, Thalasseus being used to desig- 

 nate the remaining species. In view of the very slight reasons for considering 

 Thalasseus as having special reference to S. caspius, such a procedure would be 

 hardly, if at all, an infringement on the rules of nomenclature, and would ob- 

 viate the necessity of presenting regia, elegans and their congeners under a 

 generic designation not before employed, — viz. : Actochelidon. 



Thalasseus caspips Boie ex Pall. 

 Sterna ischegrava, Lepechin, Nov. Cora. Pet. xiv. p. 500. 

 Sterna caspia, Pallas, Nov. Com. Pet. xiv. p. 582. Lawrence, Gen. Rep. Birds, 



1838, p. 859, and of most authors. 

 Thalasseus caspius, Boie, Isis, 1822, p. 5G3. 

 Hydroprogne caspia, Kaup, Sk. Ent. Eur. Thierw., 1829, p. 91. 

 Helopus caspius, Wagler, Isis, 1832, p. 1224. 

 Sylochelidon caspia, Brehm, Bonaparte, Comp. List, 1838. Lawrence, Proc. N. 



Y. Lye. Nat. Hist.. 1850, v. 37. 

 Sterna mcgarhynchos, Meyer, Taschenb. Deuts., ii. p. 457. 



DiAG. — T. rostro maximo, robustissimo, rubro ; palpebris inferioribus albis ? 

 remigibus griseo-fuscis, supra, argentaiis, nee intus albis ; cauda breviore, 

 emarginata; pedibus validissimis, nigris, digito medio cum ungue tarso 

 breviore. 



1862.] 




538 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Habitat. — In America, the interior of the Fur Countries; Hudson's Bay; 

 Labrador ; in winter ranging southward along the Atlantic Coast as far as New 

 Jersey. 



This species in all its stages of plumage is too well known to require any 

 further description. 



Quite a large series of American skins, of all ages, compared with two fully 

 adult birds from Europe, constantly differ in size and proportion, as shown by 

 the following measurements: 



Comparative measurements of American and European Birds. 



American. European. 



Length of bill along culraen 2-75* 2-40 



" " " gape 4-00 3-55 



Height " at base 0-90 0-75 



Width " opposite nostrils 0-50 0-50 



Length of wing from flexure 16-50 1500 



" " tarsus 1-75 1-65 



" " middle toe and claw 1*65 1-55 



" " tail 5 75 5-25 



The above measurements indicate the average of the specimens from both 

 countries before me, from which it will be seen that the American bird is de- 

 cidedly the larger. While the bill is nearly a third of an inch longer, it is also 

 especially remarkable for its great comparative height at tlie base, and its width 

 at base being no greater than in the European bird, gives it quite a different 

 shape. The next most patent difference lies in the length of wing from the 

 flexure, in which the American bird surpasses the European by fully I2 inches. 

 Specimens of both, of course, differ among tnemselves to a degree; but the 

 greatest variation in adult American skins is hardly half an inch. The win^ 

 of the adult European bird, indeed, hard'y equals that of a young bird of the 

 year from America ; and it is well known how much smaller are the young of 

 all Terns than the adults. The tarsi and toes of the two, as well as the tail, 

 differ in a considerable degree, but not so markedly as do the bill and wings. 

 I find no differences whatever in the color of the two birds. 



With but two specimens of the European bird before me, I do not venture to 

 formally separate from it its North American representative. But should these 

 examples prove to represent fairly the characters of the European bird, and the 

 discrepancies in size and proportion above pointed out prove constant, I should 

 not hesitate to do ao. In that event I would propose for our bird — in the ab- 

 sence of any very peculiar characters on which to base a name, and in view of 

 the fact that it is the largest and most magnificent Tern of our continent — the 

 name of Thalasseus imperator. 



The following would be its diagnosis: 



Th. Thalasseo caspio coloribus similis ; sed omnino major, rostro etiam vali- 

 diore, longiore, altiore nee latiore. Rostr. long. 2-75 poll.; alaj 16'50. 



The proper specific appellation of the Caspian Tern is not '^caspia Pallas," 

 but " tschegrava Lepechin," which latter name is proposed in the same work in 

 which Pallas calls the bird " caspia" but has priority by several pages. As, 

 however, the word is not only barbarous, but also exceedingly cacophonous, 

 and especially as caspia has become so well established by common consent, I 

 do not think it would be expedient to supersede Pallas' name, in view of the 

 very slight priority of that of Lepechin. 



Thalasseus regius Gambel. 



Sterna cat/ana, Bon., 1S28 ; Nutt., 1834; Aud., 1839 and 1844; but not cf 

 Latham. 



* Inches antl hundredths. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 539 



Sterna rec/ia, Gambel, Pr. A. N. S. Ph. iv. 184|, 128. 

 Thalasseus regius, Id. J. A. N. S. Ph. i. 2d ser. 1849, 228. 



DiAG. — Thai, rostro magno, robusto, nee peracuto, aurantio-rubio ; remige 

 prima intern^ alba nee ad apicera estensa marginata : pedibus nigris, medio 

 digito cum ungue non tarso breviore. Long. roit. 2'GO poll. ; alaj 14-50 : tarsi 

 1-30. 



Habitat. — South Atlantic Coast of America; Antilles in winter. California. 



A good series of this bird, collected in .lamaica, enables me to give its winter 

 plumage, as well as that of the young of the year. 



Winter Plumage. — Bill less brightly colored than in summer, its tip and cut- 

 ting edges dull yellowish. Front white, crown variegated with black and white, 

 the former color increasing on the occiput and nuchal crest, which latter, 

 though shorter than in summer, is almost or quite -unmixed with white. This 

 black extends forwards on the sides of the head to the eye, which it includes. 

 The tail is not pure white, as in summer, but is glossed over with the bluish of 

 the mantle, which deepens towards the tips of the feathers into dusky plum- 

 beous. Otherwise as in summer. 



Young of the Year in August. — Bill considerably smaller and shorter than in 

 the adult; its tip less acute, and its angles and ridges less sharply defined; 

 mostly reddish-yellow, but light yellowish at tip. Crown much as in the adults 

 ia winter; but the occipital crest scarcely recognizable as such. Upper parts 

 mostly white; but the pearl-gray of the adults appearing in irregular patches, 

 and the whole back marked with small, irregularly-shaped, but well-defined 

 spots of brown. On the tertials the brown occupies nearly the whole of each 

 feather, a narrow edge only remaining white. Lesser wing coverts dusky 

 plumbeous. Primaries much as in the adults, but the line of demarcation of 

 the black and white wanting sharpness of definition. Tail basally white, but 

 sooa becoming plumbeous, then decidedly brownish, the extreme tips of the 

 feathers again markedly white. Otherwise as in the adults. 



The species is so distinct from any other of North America, that it hardly 

 requires comparison. Caspius is most closely allied (except elegans) and has 

 been confounded with it. But the differences between the two are very great. 

 Regius is a much smaller bird, its wing two inches or more shorter. The bill 

 is nearly or quite as long, but it is much slenderer and every way weaker. The 

 tail is very decidedly longer and more forked, almost equalling in this respect 

 elegans or acuflavidus. The feet, with the same relative proportions of tarsus 

 and toes, are proportionally shorter. In color the two are quite similar, except 

 in the primaries where a very marked difference is observable. The inner webs 

 of caspius are wholly dull hoary plumbeous ash ; while the inner web of 

 regius has a very sharply defined white margin, as in elegans or acuflavidus, and 

 Sternx generally. 



But while there is thus no difiSculty in separating it from its North American 

 allies, the case is quite different from the Central and South American species, 

 with which it is more or less intimately related. It was, up to 1843, confounded 

 with S. cayana. Lath. (5". cayanensis, Gm.) This error was first corrected by 

 Gambel (1. c), and a distinct name imposed. It ia difficult, perhaps impossi- 

 ble, to determine to what species Latham's name is to be referred. His brief 

 diagnosis is "St. grisea, pennis rufo-marginatis, occipite nigro, corpore subtus 

 albo. Habitat in Cayana. 16 pollices longa." This description is evidently 

 that of a young bird. Gambel is inclined to consider it as " the immature 

 plumage of one of the yellow-billed species of the Brazilian coast, figured 

 by Lichtensteiu,. probablj S. 77iagnirostris.^' He further remarks that "young 

 birds of our species would agree pretty well with the erythrorhyncha, of De 

 Weid, as they are somewhat smaller and less proportioned." 



There is a specimen in the Smithsonian collection, presented by Mr. Sclater, 

 from Jamaica. It was killed March 23d, and is in moult ; probably, a young 

 bird putting on its first spring livery, though still retaining its winter marks of 



1862.] 




540 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



white front, etc. At first sight it was referred to T.regius, hnt on closer exami- 

 nation several important discrepancies were observed. The bill, though just 

 about as long as in regiits, was very decidedly smaller, weaker, with the angle 

 at symphysis less developed; it was of a clear straw-yellow, and in size and 

 shape about intermediate between regius and elegans. Tbe lateral tail feathers 

 appear broader and rounded at their tip, instead of tapering and attenuated. 

 An important difference is seen in the feet, the middle toe and claw being de- 

 cidedly longer than the tarsus, instead of equal to it. Mr. Sclater did not label 

 this birdj and I am equal!}' uncertain what name to apply. It seems to be not 

 at all improbable that it may be the S. cayaiia, of Latham, and, if so, would 

 substantiate Gambel's position, for it is certainly not the bird he named regia. 



TH.A.LASSEn8 ELEGAXS Gamb. 



Sterna elegans, Gambel, Pr. A. N. S. Ph. iv. 1848, 129. Lawrence, Gen. Rep. 



Birds, 1858, 860. Atlas, pi. xciv. 

 Tkalasseus elegans, Gambel, J. A. N. S. Ph. 2d ser. i. 1819, 228. 



DiAG. — Th. Thalassco regio similis ; sed multo minor, rostro graciliore, digito 

 medio cum ungue tarso breviore ; corpore subtus rosaceo-albo. 



Habitat. — Coast of California. 



The most striking morphological character of this species, as compared with 

 its nearest ally, T. regia, is the comparative length of the tarsus and toes. In 

 regia the middle toe is, with the claw, just as long as the tarsus; while the 

 same parts in elegans are ver}- considerably shorter. 



This beautiful species has been so accurately described by its discoverer, and 

 its affinities so correctly indicated, that any further remarks upon these points 

 would be de trop. It is as yet almost unknown in cabinets. A very fine speci- 

 men, in winter plumage, has been deposited in the Smithsonian by J. Hepburn, 

 Esq., and is the original of the plate above cited. It agrees minutely with 

 Gambel's description. 



Thalassecs accflavidus (Cabot). 

 Sterna Boysii, Nuttall, Man. Orn. ii. 1834, 276. Sed non Lath., 1790. 

 Sterna caniiaca, Audubon, Orn. Biog. iii. 1835, 531. Id. B. A. vii. 1844, 87. 



Sed non Gmel., 1788. 

 Sterna acuflavida, Cabot, Proc. Bost. Soc. X. H., 1837, ii. 257. Lawr. Gen. Rep. 



1858, 860. 

 Tkalasseus acuflavidus, ? 



DiaG. — T. Thalasseo cantiaco statura, forma, colorib usque omnino similis ; sed 

 margine alba pogonii interni remigis primae angustiore, nee in apicem pennas 

 porrecta. 



Habitat. — Atlantic Coast of North America, ranging into the Antilles in winter. 



The young of the year is considerably smaller than the adult (wing .} inch 

 shorter) as is usual in this subfamily. The bill is shorter and weaker, and is 

 without any very distinct definition of angles and ridges. It is brownish black, 

 the extreme point only yellowish. The crown, front and nape are brownish 

 black, variegated with white, the white touches very small on the front. The 

 upper parts are as in the adults ; but everywhere marked with irregularly-shaped, 

 but well-defined spots and transverse bars of decided brownish black. There i8 

 no well formed occipital crest, until after the first moult. The primaries are like 

 those of the adults. The tail, however, is very different. The feathers for 

 three-fourths their length are of the color of the back; this color gradually 

 deepens, until towards the tips it becomes brownish black, — each feather having 

 a terminal irregular edge left whitish. The tail, in shape, is simply deeply 

 emarginate, the outer feathers being but slightly longer than the second. 



In winter the yellow tip of the bill of the adults decreases in extent and in- 

 tensity of color ; the front is white, either pure or speckled with black ; the 

 crown variegated with black and white ; but the long occipital crest, which does 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 541 



not disappear at this season, remains of an unmixed brownish black. The 

 lateral tail feathers are shorter. The bird otherwise as in summer. 



At all seasons the yellow tip of the bill varies in extent, and it also presents 

 a varying regularity and sharpness of division from the black. I am inclined 

 to think that the extent of the yellow depends upon the age of the bird: its 

 intensity upon the season. The longest yellow tip before me measures three- 

 fourths of an inch, the shortest one-fourih. In a large series of specimens the 

 tarsi and toes scarcely differ appreciably. The markings of the primaries, in 

 their extent and disposition, are also remarkably constant. The variation in 

 length of wing from flexure in adult summer birds is about half an inch. The 

 tail varies somewhat in depth of fork, but is always less than in the species of 

 Sterna proper. 



A series of winter skins from Jamaica in, probably, their first moult, differ 

 from adult examples from various points on the Atlantic Coast in being every 

 way considerably smaller. The bills are about a third of an inch shorter than 

 the average ; and other parts differ proportionally. 



The American Sandwich Tern was first separated from the European by 

 Cabot, (1. c.) in 1847. Most of the points of difference, however, assigned by 

 that writer, disappear when large series from both continents are compared. 

 The difference in the measurements given exists equally in individuals of both 

 species; for. as will be seen from the above remarks, specimens vary greatly in 

 these respects. After an attentive examination of a large number of skins, I 

 can appreciate no differences whatever in these respects ; and in size and pro- 

 portions, of bill as well as of the whole body, the two appear identical. Neither 

 can distinctive characters be drawn from the yellow lip of the bill. In both 

 species the line of union of the yellow and black is equally irregular, depend- 

 ing for its exact character on the age of the bird. In both, the yellow runs 

 along the gonys, nearly or quite to the angle at the symphysis. It also extends, 

 but in a less degree, along the ridge of the upper mandible, and even for a little 

 way on the cutting edges of both mandibles. The outline of the yellow on 

 the sides of the bill is also more usually concavo-convex than perfectly straight 

 and perpendicular. The trenchant line of union, which existed in the speci- 

 men described by Cabot, must have been rather exceptional. I cannot appre- 

 ciate any difference in the width of the bills of the two in the series before me. 

 A discrepancy in the claws of the two does not exist as constant. 



We are reduced, therefore, in separating the two birds, to the single remaining 

 character given by Cabot, — that of the primaries. These parts in the 

 American bird are not darker than those of the European, since their color de- 

 pends on their age ; but a decided difference in the white margins of the inner 

 webs exists uniformly in all the specimens from either country that I have ever 

 examined. In the European bird the white of the inuer web of the first pri- 

 mary occupies at the base nearly the whole of the web, the dark portion beino' 

 merely a narrow line along the shaft. This black portion widens but little as 

 it runs along the feather, so that the white border extends quite broadly to the 

 very tip of tbe feather, which it entirely occupies. In the American, on the 

 contrary, the black portion is in its whole length wider, and, about one and a 

 half inches from the tip becomes quite suddenly very decidedly broader, so 

 much so as nearly to cut off the white, which latter continues forward a little 

 further, but only as a very narrow bordering line, and finally disappears before 

 it reaches the tip. The same holds good, though somewhat less markedly, of 

 the second, third and fourth primaries. The following would therefore con- 

 stitute the 



Differential diagnoses of the American and European Bird. 



Th. cantiacu-s. — White margins of inner web of outer three or four prima- 

 ries wide, extending quite to tip, which it wholly occupies. Breadth of white 

 portion IJ inches from tip of first primary, '25 of inch. 



1862.] 




542 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Th. acuflavidus. — White margins of inner web of three or four outer prima- 

 ries narrow, falling short of tip, which is wholly occupied bj the black portion. 

 Breadth of white margin \h inches from tip of first primarj, -iO of an inch. 



Genus STERNA Linnaeus. 



Sterna, Linn., Syst. Nat. 1748. Type, (5. hirundo, Linn. 



Thalassea, Kaup, Sk. Ent. Eur. Theirw. 1829, p. 97. Type, S. paradisea, Briin. 



Hydrocecropis, Boie, Isis, 1844, p. 178. Type, ? (includes S. paradisea.) 



Sternula, Boie, Isis, 1822, 563. Type, S. minuta, Linn. 



Ch. — Head without a decided occipital crest, but the feathers of the parts 

 somewhat elongated ; size moderate, or very small ; general form slender and 

 graceful. Bill about as long as, or slightly shorter than, the head, greatly ex- 

 ceeding the tarsus ; of varying stoutness, but usually quite slender, very acute, 

 the culmen gently curved, being slightly declinato-convex. Commissure gently 

 curved ; outline of rami a little concave, of gonys quite straight, the angle at 

 symphysis well marked and acute, but not very prominent. Wings long and 

 pointed. Tail of variable length and amount of forfication, but always de- 

 cidedly greatly forked ; the lateral feathers elongated, slender and tapering, 

 greatly surpassing the others. Tail contained in the wing of the type of the 

 genus about ]| times; in arctica IJ times; while the tail of paradisea is bat 

 little less th^n the wing. Tarsus glender, slightly shorter than the middle 

 toe and claw, slightly longer than the middle toe alone ; much shorter than 

 the bill, about equal to the distance between the projection at symphysis and the 

 lip of the inferior mandible. 



The genus Sterna, in the restricted acceptation in which it is employed by 

 most modern authors, embraces quite numerous species, all more or less inti- 

 mately related to S. hirundo. The group is one well defined, its species agree- 

 ing very closely in size, general form, pattern of coloration, and seasonal 

 changes of plumage. Specific characters are generally found in the varying 

 length and stoutness of bills and tarsi, amount of forking of the tail, markings 

 of the primaries, and other less decided features of coloration. 



Sterna proper has comparatively few synonyms, the principal of which are 

 :hose given at the head of this article. Thalassea, Kaup, and Hydrocecropis, 

 Boie, are strictly synonymous, while Sternula, Boie, is based upon a species 

 differing but very slightly from the type, S. hirundo. 



"Sterna Trcdeaui Aud." 



Sterna Trudeaui, Audubon, Orn. Biog. v. 1339, 125. Lawr. Gen. Rep. Birds. 

 1858, 861. 



I have before me a typical specimen of Sterna Trudeaui, belonging to J. P. 

 Giraud, Jr., the one from which was drawn up the description in the General 

 Report, and supposed to be also the original of Audubon's plate and descrip- 

 :ion. As these are the chief descriptions of the bird which have ever appeared, 

 and as, I believe, the specimen is the only one known to exist, it may fairly be 

 considered to embody all that i? at present known of the species. From the 

 peculiar characters presented by it, as well as by the species which succeeds, 

 — to both of which attach, for various obvious reasons, doubts as to validity, 

 — it may be of advantage to examine somewhat closely into its charac- 

 ters, to determine if possible whether they be distinct from each other ; and in 

 that case in what they differ from 5. Forsteri. 



The bill is quite stout at the base, both as regards height and width, and 

 tapers regularly to an acute point, the culmen being but slightly arcuate. It is 

 precisely the length of that of an adult Forsteri, and also of a supposed HavfUi* 



* The gpecimens of •' HaveUi " referred to, are those furiiahed by Mr. Liwrenw, and so UbeUed 

 by tim. 



[Dec 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 543 



It is bright, yellow at the tip for exactly the same distance as is the bill of 

 " Havelli ;" but the base, for nearly a third of the length of the bill, appears to 

 bave been in life bright orange yellow, so that only the middle of the bill is 

 left black ; whereas, in " Havelli," the bill is black from its yellow tip quite to 

 the base of the upper mandible, and only a small space on the under mandible 

 is left yellow. The front and crown are white, passing into light pearl blue on 

 the nape, exactly as in " Havelli ;" the circumocular fascia also exists, but it 

 is somewhat narrower than in that species. The other upper parts are of 

 exactly the shade of i^or«^«n or ^'■Havelli;" but this color extends around the 

 sides of the neck quite to the throat, and occupies the whole under parts of 

 the bird, not even excepting the under tail-coverts, whereas in ^'■Havelli" and 

 Forsteri, the color of the same parts is nearly or quite pure white. The rump 

 is white, as in both those species. The tail is elongated : — exactly intermedi- 

 ate between a full plumaged summer Forsteri and '■'■ Havelli ;" it has precisely 

 the color of the latter, the inner web of the lateral feather being somewhat 

 lighter than in the former. The wings, in their markings and length, are iden- 

 tical with those of either Forsteri or " Havelli;" the tarsi and toes are fraction- 

 ally of the same length, and appear of about the same color in the dried skin. 



The differences therefore between '■^Havelli" and " Trudeaui," lie entirely in 

 the following features : 1st. The bases of both mandibles are orange yellow for 

 nearly half their length in "TVwc/ca!/?,"' while in '■'■ Havelli ^^ a very small portion of 

 the under mandible only is light colored. 2d. The color of the back extends 

 undiluted over the whole under parts of " Trudeaui," while the same parts in 

 " Havelli " are white. 



The greater slenderness of the bill, and the shorter tarsi, given by Audabon 

 as characteristic of " Trudeaui" in conoparison with " Havelli " do not exist, 

 provided the specimens before me exhibit the characters of the latter. Indeed, 

 a comparison of fourteen specimens of Forsteri, three of " Havelli," and the 

 single " Trudeaui" shows the three to be surprisingly similar in every detail 

 of size and proportions ; the bills and tarsi particularly, hardly differing as 

 much in length as do these parts in different individuals of hirundo or macroura. 



Should the color of the bill and of the under parts of " Trudeaui," — more par- 

 ticularly the latter — prove constant, they would be abundantly sufficient to 

 separate it from any other species. The only question is, whether the speci- 

 men under consideration is not in an entirely accidental and abnormal state of 

 plumage, to be placed in the same category with albinism, melanism, &c. 

 Although Audubon states that he saw other individuals like the present speci- 

 men, it appears to be the only one ever actually examined. The question is 

 one of great interest, but one of which, unfortunately, we a'-e no nearer the 

 positive solution than we were twenty years ago ; and I am therefore obliged 

 rem in, medio relinquere. 



" Stern'a Havelli Aud." 



Sterna Havelli, Audubon, Orn. Biog. v. 1839, 122. Lawrence, Gen. Rep. Birds 

 1858,861. ' 



So accurate a description of the winter plumage — the only one known — of 

 this supposed species has been given by its discoverer, that it is unnecessary 

 here to repeat it. A discussion of the essential characters assigned to it, to dis- 

 cover exactly what are its claims to specific distinction, may be given. 



It is not a little singular that, of a species recognized for more than twentv 

 years, the nuptial plumage should be still quite unknown. I am not aware 

 that a specimen which could be referred to this species has ever been taken in 

 spring or summer. There can be no doubt, however, that at that season it 

 obtains the black pileura common to all the species of the genus, — with, proba- 

 bly, not even the exception of " Trudeaui." A specimen before me, which agrees 

 more closely than any other with Audubon's plate and description, has the 

 ciown and occiput very noticeably variegated with black; this color, indeed. 

 1862.] 




544 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



being almost unmixed with white on the extreme nape. The front alone is 

 white. The character, therefore, of a black ocular fascia, and white crown, 

 cannot be considered as diagnostic of the adult full-plumaged bird. 



The chief, and, indeed, the only point to be examined, is the relationship 

 of this species with the S. Forsteri, — winter specimens of which agree very 

 closely with it. In discussing this question, it must be borne in mind that 

 Audubon was entirely unacquainted with S. Forsteri, or at least did not recog- 

 nize its claims to specific validity, as distinct from 5. hinrndo. Indeed, if we 

 compare Audubon's description of his ^^ Ilavelli" with a winter specimen of 5. 

 Forsteri it will be found that they correspond minutely in every particular of 

 size, form and colors ; and the characters given apply as well to the one 

 as to the other. For, though summer specimens of Forsteri a-re quite different 

 in the elongation of the tail, color of bill, black pileum, &c., yet in winter these 

 features are quite changed, the tail becoming shortened, the bill blackened, 

 and the pileum restricted to a circnmocular fascia. Basing an argument, 

 therefore, upon these data, ^^ S. Havelli, Aud.," might, without the slightest 

 impropriety, be reckoned as a synonym of S. Forsteri. 



Three Terns, obligingly furnished for examination by Mr. Lawrence, and la- 

 belled by him " Ilavelli," differ in some respect from any winter skins of Fors- 

 teri which have as yet fallen under my observation. Their size and proportions, 

 length of tarsi, elongation of tail, &c., are quite identical. The most perfect of 

 these, — evidently an adult bird in full winter plumage, — has a stout bill, almost 

 black, its tip for more than a fourth of an inch bright yellow. The bill in fact 

 looks something like that of T/ialasseus cantiacus or acuflavidus. There is a well- 

 defined lateral stripe on the head ; the whole crown is pure white, and even on 

 the nape there are no traces of black, that part being light pearl color, much as 

 the back. But the most distinctive feature of this specimen is that the tail is 

 entirely very light pearl, the inner web of the lateral feather being scarcely, if at 

 all, darker than the outer. A second specimen, a younger bird apparently, and 

 evidently, from the ragged dull brown condition of its primaries, in moult, has 

 the same decided character of tail as has the first one. The bill is even stouter 

 at the base, and the extreme point only is slightly yellowish. The whole crown 

 is variegated with black and white, the former being left nearly pure on the 

 nape. The third specimen is quite like the last, but the inner web of the lateral 

 feather is quite decidedly dusky, showing an approach to S. Forsteri. It will 

 be noticed that where these three specimens are quite identical with each other, 

 in size and proportions, they differ among themselves in colors, both of bill and 

 feathers, and show quite a gradation towards S. Forsteri. 



From the above remarks it will be seen that the question really hinges upon 

 the following point, as yet not positively determined : Does the S. Forsteri in 

 winter, when fully adult, ever acquire a very broad bright yellow tip to its 

 otherwise wholly black bill, and lose entirely the dark character of the inner 

 web of its exterior tail feather ? 



Now it is well known, that the younger a Forster's Tern is, the darker is the 

 inner web of the lateral feather ; and the natural inference from this fact is, that 

 with increasing age the inner web may become nearly or even quite as light as 

 the outer. "With regard to the broad yellow tip of the bill, it will be noticed, 

 that of the three specimens purporting to be " -S. Havelli" each one varies in 

 this particular; so that it would be quite impossible to consider it as diagnos- 

 tic. Therefore, though unable to prove the point incontrovertably, I am de- 

 cidedly of opinion that Sterna " Bavelli," is merely the adult winter plumage of 

 .S'. Forsteri, and not a distinct species. 



Sterna Forsteri Nuttall. 

 Sterna Mrundo, Sw. et Rich., F. B. A., 1831, ii. 412, nee Linn. 

 Sterna Forsteri, Nuttall, Man. Orn., 1834, ii. p. 274 (iu note to 5. hirundo), and 

 of authors. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 545 



DiAQ. — S. Ster7ix hirundini similis : sed rostro longiore. valde robustiore, tarsis 

 longioribus, validioribns ; cauda Tuagis producta, perlacea, rectrice lateral! 

 pogonio interne fusco-griseo, externo albo. 



Habitat. — Very extensively distributed over North America. Atlantic Coast 

 and Gulf of Mexico. Fur countries. Great Lakes and Rivers. Texas. Utah. 

 California. 



In view of the considerations presented in the two preceding articles, it may 

 be well to look somewhat carefully into the characters of the present species. 



Adult, spring jdumage. — Bill orange-yellow, black for nearly its terminal half, 

 the extreme points of both mandibles yellowish; robust, deep at the base: 

 cuiraen markedly declinato-convex, eminence at symphysis well developed; in 

 total length from one to two-tenths of an inch longer than in S. hirundo. The 

 black piieum does not extend so far down on the sides of the head as it does in 

 hirundo, barely embracing the eye (the lower lid of which is white), and leav- 

 ing a considerably wider white space between the eye and commissural edge 

 of superior maxilla than in hirundo. The color of the back hardly differs ap- 

 preciably from that species ; it is perhaps a shade lighter. The wings are com- 

 paratively considerably shorter than in hirundo, being absolutely a little less, 

 though Forsteri is a larger bird. They are very light colored, being strongly 

 silvered with the peculiar hoariness common to most of the species of the 

 genus ; this lighter color is very observable even on the* coverts. The outer 

 web of the first primary is not black, but silvery like the others ; all the prima- 

 ries want the very decided white space on the inner webs which exists in hirundo 

 "and raacroura ; there are indications of it, indeed, on the three or four outer 

 primaries, but the others are a nearly uniform dusky-gray, moderately hoary. 

 The entire under parts are white, with scarcely a trace of the plumbeous 

 which is so evident in hirundo, and amounts to so decided a color in macroura. 

 The tail is a slightly lighter shade of the color of the mantle, separated from 

 the latter for a short space by the decidedly white rump. The lateral feathers 

 are much more lengthened than in hirundo, the elongation generally quite 

 equalling that of macroura, and sometimes even exceeding it. These two 

 lateral feathers are white on the outer web, dusky-gray on the inner. This 

 being exactly the reverse of hirundo, and a very noticeable feature, was the first 

 to draw attention to the bird, and this character being so tangible and conve- 

 nient, writers have perhaps laid too much stress upon it, to the exclusion of 

 others, quite as evident and more important. The feet are bright orange, 

 tinged with vermillion ; the tarsus shorter than the middle toe and claw; the 

 feet longer and stouter, by over -lO of an inch, than the sames parts in hirundo. 

 When the primaries become old, i e., at the approach of the spring or autumn 

 moult, before the species begins to put on its complete summer or winter livery, 

 the primaries lose their beautiful silvering, and become plain brown, their 

 shafts inclining to decided yellow. They have then also distinct white spaces on 

 their inner webs, nearly as well marked as in hirundo or macroura. 



Adult, winter plumage. — The bill loses the bright orange-yellow which exists 

 in summer, the black encroaching upon it, so that it becomes almost wholly 

 dusky. The base of the under mandible in dried skins appears as if it might 

 have been flesh-colored in life. The feet also lose their bright color, and in- 

 cline to a dusky-yellowish. The black piieum is more or less mixed with 

 white, the white predominating on the forehead so as to leave it nearh' pure; 

 there is always considerable black left on the nape, and also a broad band on 

 the side of the head, embracing the eye, and reaching to the nape behind, ex- 

 actly as represented in Audubon's plate of -S. Ilavelli. The long lateral tail 

 feathers become greatly shortened, so as to be but scarcely, if at all, longer 

 than those of hirundo during the breeding season. The color of the inner webs 

 becomes darker, though it does not extend so far towards the base of the feather; 

 sometimes it invades the outer web also, towards the tip. 



Young of the year, be/ore the first moult. — Bill every way considerably smaller, 



1862.] " 38 




546 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



shorter and weaker than that of the adult, and wanting its very acute tip, and 

 sharply-defined r'.dges and angles; brownish-black, fading into dull flesh-color 

 at the base of the under mandible. Front white, but the crown and nape show 

 considerable traces of the black that is to appear, which is now mixed with a 

 good deal of light-brown. The pearl-blue of the back and wing coverts is 

 everywhere interrupted by irregular patches of light grayish-brown, showing a 

 tendency to become transverse bars ; this grayish-brown on the tertials deepens 

 into brownish-black, and occupies nearlj' the whole extent of each feather. 

 The primaries differ from those of the adult in having less of the silvery gloss, 

 and the inner white spaces are more marked, being in fact much like those of 

 the adult kirtindo. The rump and under parts are pure white. The tail inten- 

 sifies, so to speak, its adult characters as regards color; and, independently of 

 any other feature, will always serve to identify the species. It is deeply emar- 

 ginate, but the lateral feather is not greatly produced, surpassing the second 

 by scarcely more than the latter surpasses the third. Its inner web for an inch 

 or so from the tip, and both webs of the other feathers, are quite decidedly 

 grayish-black ; the intensity of this color, and also its extent, decreasing sac- 

 cessively on each feather from without inwards, so that the central pair scarcely 

 deepen their color at the tips. The outer web of the lateral feather generally 

 stays pretty uninterruptedly white, but sometimes is just at the tip invaded by 

 the darker color of its inner web. 



The preceding descriptions embrace all the well characterized stages of 

 plumage of this species which are known to me, though there are, of course, 

 intermediates in great variety between those given. It is indeed a little 

 remarkable, the number of specimens in immature or winter plumage which 

 find their way into collections. Of the numerous examples before me, just one- 

 half are in this state, all showing white fronts, and the usual deep black band 

 through the eye. There would seem to be something peculiar in the habitat 

 of this species, to cause it to differ so remarkably from its allies hiriindo and 

 macroura in this respect. I have purposely gone considerably into detail re- 

 garding these immature stages, because of the great similarity which exists be- 

 tween the species, and the same ages of '■ S. Havelli," if, indeed, the latter be 

 really distinct from it. The question of the relationship of the two has been fally 

 discussed under the head of " /S. Havelli.'' 



Sterna Forsteri affords a good illustration of a species, bearing so intimate a 

 general resemblance to another, as to be confounded with it at first glance, and 

 yet when carefully examined proving to be totally distinct. It is perfectly easy 

 to separate it from the hirundo by its characters of bill, wings, tail or feet, 

 either of which taken alone would identify it. The following table will exhi- 

 bit at a glance the distinctive features of our three most intimately allied spe- 

 cies, between which, it will be observed, there is a complete and gradual 

 f-ransition in almost every respect. 



Differential Diagnoses of S. Frrsteri, hirundo and macroura. 



S. Forsteri. — Bill (average) 1-60 along culmen ; depth at base -40; robust. 

 Bill orange-yellow, nearly its terminal half black. White space between eye 

 and cutting edge of upper mandible broad. Under parts white. Outer web 

 of first primary silvery ; the inner webs also of the others strongly hoary, with- 

 out well-defined white spaces. Tail bluish-pearl, like the back, its lateral 

 feather greatly produced (average nearly 7 inches in length) ; its outer i^eb 

 white, inner the color of the rest of the tail. Legs long and stout; length of 

 tarsus (average) rather over -90 of an inch ; orange-yellow, tinged with ver- 

 milion. Lengtli of tarsus, middle toe and claw 2 inches. 



S. hirundo. — Bill (average) 1-45 along culmen ; depth at base '33; moderate. 

 Bill vermilion-red ; its terminal third black. White space between eye and 

 iQtlinp edge of upper mandible narrower than in Forsteri. Under parts lightly 

 washed with pl'.imbeous, fading into white on the throat and abdomen. Outer 



[Pec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF rniLADELPIIIA. 



547 



■web of first primary black ; inner webs of the others somewhat hoary, with 

 well defined white space;. Tail white, different from the back, its lateral 

 feather moderately produced (average 6 inches in length) : its outer web gray- 

 ish-dusky, inner white. Legs moderate: length of tarsus about -80 of an 

 inch; light vermilion-red. Length of tarsus, middle toe and claw 1-75 inches. 



S. macroura. — Bill (average) 1-30 along culmen : depth at base -30; slender. 

 Bill wholly deep carmine-red. Wbite space between eye and cutting edge of 

 upper mandible narrower than in hirundo. Under parts decidedly plumbeous, 

 extending from vsnt to throat, both of which become abruptly white. Prima- 

 ries as in hirundo. Tail with the elongation of Forsleri, or rather exceeding it 

 (average 7-50 inches), and the color of hirundo. Legs very short and slender: 

 length of tarsus (average) -65 of an inch ; deep vermilion, almost lake. 

 Length of tarsus, middle toe and claw, about 1-50 inches. 



Comparison of tht young of the year of S. Forsteri and hirundo. — The bill and 

 feet constantly present dififerences proportional to those which exist in the 

 adults, as regards length and stoutness. The bill of hirundo is more decidedly 

 yellowish at the base of the lower mandible than in that of Forsteri ■ and the 

 feet are clear yellow instead of being tinged with dusky. The mottled and 

 Tariegated crown and upper parts are much the same in bo'h ; and the markings 

 of the quills quite identical. The tail, however, differs remarkably. In 

 hirundo the outer webs of all the feathers are dusky-gray. In Forsteri the re- 

 verse is the case. The difference is even more marked than in the adults. 



There is little to be said with regard to the bibliography of this species. 

 In 1831 Swainson and Richardson describe it. calling it S. hirundo, but noticing 

 the discrepancies which exist in the tail and feet. In 1S34, Nuttall seizes upon 

 these differences in a note nnder S. hirundo. and susgests for the species the 

 name of -S^. Forsteri. in the event of its proving distinct. The citation " .S. 

 hirundo. Rich., nee Linn..'' is. I believe, the only synonym of this well-marked 

 species, unless, indeed, it be necessary to refer to it the two preceding species. 



I append the detailed measurements of several specimens of this species, 

 "which will serve to show within what limits it varies in size and proportions. 



Stehna hieusdo Linn. 



Hirundo marina, Ray, Syn., p. 131. 



Sterna major, Brisson, Ornithologie, p. 113. 



Sterna hirundo, Linn<eus. Syst. Nat., i. 17GG, 227 ; et auct. Fab. Fabrc. et Rich. 



exceptis. 

 Hydrocecropis hirundo, Boie, Isis, 1844, p. 179. 

 9Sterna fiuvialilis, Naumann, Isis, 1820, fide Temm. 

 Sterna marina, Eyton, Cat. Brit. Birds, 183G, p. 55, 

 Sterna Wilsoni, Bonaparte. Comp. List., 1838, p. 61, et auct. Amer. recent. = ^V. 



hirundo ex Amcricd. 

 " Great or Common Tern," Latham and English authors. " Hirondelle-de- 



1862.] 




548 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



mere pierre-garin," Buffon and French authors. " Gemeine, oder Rothfussiger 

 Meerschwalbe," Becbstein, Meyer and German authors. '-Wilson's Tern," 

 Bonaparte, and most later American authors. 



Ilabitat. — Sea Coasts of Europe, part of Asia and America, ascending rirers 

 and bays to a considerable distance. 



This species has been so long known that any description of its characters, 

 or changes of plumage are unnecessary. Temminck says that the adults in 

 winter do not lose the black of the crown, " elle est seulement plus terne." If 

 this be so, the species forms an exception to the general rule among Terns, 

 that at this season the front becomes nearly white, the crown variegated with 

 black and white, or the black still further reduced to a circumocular fascia. 



Comparisons of this species with S. Forsteri and macroura, its most intimate 

 allies, will be found under the head of the former. 



The common Terns of Europe and America were considered identical by all 

 writers up to the year 1838. At that date they were separated by Bonaparte ; 

 and American authors, with the exception of Audubon, have generally followed 

 his example. I am little pleased to be obliged to refer to a European species, 

 an American bird which has been judged distinct by high authority, but such 

 a procedure seems unavoidable in the present instance. I am not aware that 

 any distinctive characters have ever been assigned to our bird. Bonaparte, in 

 instituting the species, gives no description, as, indeed, is the case with several 

 other species founded in the same work, with regard to which he appears to 

 have relied, for means of separating them from their European allies, rather 

 upon some theory of geographical distribution, than upon any discrepancies 

 presented by the birds themselves. I have very carefully compared a series of 

 skins from both continents, and neither in size, form or color, have I been able 

 to detect the slightest differences ; and consequently, until some one is more 

 fortunate than myself in detecting valid specific characters, I must refer the 

 American bird to the old Linnaean S. hirundo. 



Below are offered the detailed measurements of five American and European 

 birds, taken at random from a large series. It will be observed that in no re- 

 spect do the dimensions of the birds from the two continents present greater 

 differences than are found in the various examples from either. 



A. — S. hirmido ex Europd. 



B. — S. hiriitido ex America. 



* Inches an 1 hundredths. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 549 



For a species so long known, the present has remarkably few synonym?. That 

 of <S'. Wilsoni is the one which has been most firmly established. I quote S. 

 fiaviatilk with a query on the authority of Temminck. This author, and also 

 Degland, unhesitatingly refer it to the present species, while by some very re- 

 cent authors* it is regarded as distinct. Eyton, in calling the bird <S'. marina, 

 derives his authority for the specific name from the Hirundo marina, of Ray s 

 Synopsis, p. 131. Brisson's Sterna mij'or probably also refers to this species, 

 but though both these latter names have priority over Linnaeus' appellation, 

 they are to be disregarded, as neither of their authors were binomalists. 



Sterna macroura Xaumann. 

 Sterna hirundo, Faber, Prod. 1822, p. 88. Fabricius, Faun. Groenl. 1780, p. 



105. Nee Linn, nee Richards. 

 Sterna macroura, Naum., Isis, 1819, p. 1847. Degland, Ornith. Europ. 1849, 



p. 344. Lawrence, Gen. Rep. Birds, 1858, p. 8G2. 

 Sterna arclica, Temm., Man. Orn. 1820, ii., 742, et auct. pleriq. 

 Sterna nitzschii, Kaup, Isis, 1824, p. 153, secundum Gray. 

 ? Sterna brachytarsa, Graba, fide Gray. 



DiAG. — St. rostro gracile, rubro; pedibus brevissimis, rubris ; corpora toto 

 caerulescente-plumbeo, subtus dilufiore; caudu, uropygio, tectricibusque 

 caudalibus inferioribus albis ; rectrice lateral! valde elongata, pogouio ex- 

 terno griseo-fusco. 



Habitat. — Europe. Atlantic Coast of North America from Massachusetts 

 northward. Interiorof Arctic America, (Hudson's Bay, Great Slave Lake.) Semi- 

 avine Straits. 



Examination of a very large series of this species shows it to be subject to 

 great variations in some respects. These are especially noticeable in the bill 

 and tail. The largest bill in the series measures 1-40 inches along the culmen ; 

 the smallest (from Nova Scotia) otily 1-08, — the difference being over -30 of 

 an inch. The average length of bill is about 1-30. The tail varies in length 

 quite as remarkably, the difference between two equally adult individuals being 

 more than Ih inches. The color of the bill is pretty constant, — a uniform deep 

 lake. Sometimes, however, it acquires a dusky tip, hut never the decided black 

 space which exists in S. hirundo and Forsteri. The bill is much smaller, and 

 every way more delicately shaped than in those species. The under parts are 

 nearly uniform in color. This is very decided, scarcely if at all lighter than 

 the back, (very different from the slight wash of hirundo,) and extends in full 

 intensity quite from the throat to the vent, — the under tail coverts being pure 

 white, iu maiked contrast. The under surface of the wings do not share the 

 general color of the body, but are pure white. The feet are exceedingly short, 

 and hardly vary appreciably. Their color is carmine, not so deep as the bill, 

 but still not of the vermilion or coral red of those of hirundo. 



The distinctive features of this species and the <S. hirundo, will be found under 

 the head of S. Forsteri. They are so many, and so well marked, thnt it is difficult 

 to conceive how the two species were ever confounded. The differences between 

 it and S. Pikei, the next most closely allied species, are given under the head of 

 the latter. There is no other North American species with which the present 

 requires comparison. 



I have carefully examined a large series of examples from both continents, 

 and have been unable to detect the slightest discrepancies. This is one of the 

 species of which, so far as I am aware, American and European specimens have 

 never been separated by any writer. 



Temminck's name of arcticd has until recently been very generally applied to 

 this bird ; but that of Naumann must supersede it. Temminck admits that 

 Naumann named the bird macroura before he called it arctica, but insists upon 



■ * Deg Murs, Traifre G^Derale d'Oologie Ornithologique, p. 551. 



1862.] 




550 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the adopuon of his name upon the following grounds : " Le nom de macroura 

 ne convient point a ma St' arctica ; elle a seulement une queue un peu plus 

 longue que »S7. kirundo, tandisque nous avons en Europe et d I'eiranger des 

 Sternes a queue tres longue, et que Si. Dougalli a une queue extraordinairemer.t 

 longue, depassant les ailes souvent de plus de deux pouces." The fact, however, 

 of there existing other Terns with tails as long or longer than the species to which 

 the name macroura was applied, would hardly be recognized by ornithologists 

 as a valid excuse for setting aside a prior designation. Temminck's descrip- 

 tion is very accurate, but the dimensions given, (" 13 pouces 6 ou 8 lignea") is 

 considerably below the average. 



I regret that I have never seen the immature or winter plumage of this spe- 

 cies ; the more so, since, so far as I can discover, no description of these stages 

 has been given by any American writer. They were unknown to Temminck. 

 Degland* says that the winter plumage differs from that of summer only in the 

 black of the crown being variegated with white. The same author describes the 

 young before the 6rst moult as resembling those of ^. hirundo ; but being a 

 little smaller, the tarsus notably shorter, the bill slenderer and brown, with the 

 base and cutting edge of the mandibles yellowish red. His description in other 

 points does not differ materially from aS'. hirundo. 



Degland also speaks of the occurrence of a hybrid of this species, and the 5. 

 hirmido, partaking in a varying degree of the characters of either parent. 

 Though I have never met with a specimen which I could not unhesitatinglr 

 refer to one or the other species, it seems not at all improbable that hybrids should 

 really occur. 



The Sterna Jdrundo of the authors quoted in the syuonomy undoubtedly re- 

 fers to the present species. Though in the description of 5'. /?/^3«c/uY of Kaup 

 there are some discrepancies, I follow Gray in assigning it as a synonym. I have 

 never had an opportunity of examining S. brachytarsa of Graba, but quote it 

 entirely upon the authority of Gray. 



Stekna Pikei, Lawrence. 

 Sterna Pikei, Lawr. Ann. N. Y. Lye. N. H., vi. 1853, 3. Id. Gen. Rep. Birds, 1858, 

 863. Atlas, pi. xcv. 



DiAG. — (^Adultus, vestiiu hyemaU '?) S. rostro tenue, fuscescente-rubro : fronte 

 albo griseoque variegato ; occipite nigro ; dorso alisqne griseo-coerulescenti- 

 bus ; uropygio albo; cauda valde elongata, forficata, rectrice laterali pogonio 

 externo fusca ; corpore subtus albo; pedibus rubris. 



Habitat. — Coast of California. 



I have before me the type of Sterna Pikei, the original of Mr. Lawrence's des- 

 criptions (1. c.) obligingly furnished by that gentleman for examination. This 

 specimen, the onl^' one known to exist in any cabinet, is unfortunately in im- 

 mature or winter plumage, and in rather poor condition. The species is a very 

 strongly-marked one, differing widely from any other of North America, not 

 only in colors, but in form and proportions. In size it is considerably smaller 

 than (S*. macroura, the wing being one inch or more shorter than in the average 

 of that species; the tarsi and toes a very little less. The bill measures 1*12 

 inches ; it is remarkably slender, i's heigth at base being only -25 of an inch 

 — just about equal to that o( aniillartnn. The color is quite undefinable in the 

 specimen before me, but, as remarked by Mr. Lawrence, is probably deep car- 

 mine in life. The whitish front, becoming more and more mixed with grayish 

 black towards the occiput, together with the plumbeous lesser wing coverts, 

 are evidently those of an immature bird, probably of its first winter. The black 

 of the occiput is quite pure, and extends on the sides of the head far enough to 

 embrace the eyes. The marking of th^' primaries and secondaries are precise- 

 ly those of S. macroura, and the color of the back and wings is much the same. 



* Ornith. Europ. 1S49, ii. p. 045. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 551 



The tail is very long. I do not mean, however, that the lateral tail feather? 

 are greatly produced, as in macroura a^ndparadUea, (though that is not improbably 

 the case in the summer plumage) for the depth of the fork is not greater com- 

 paratively, than in hirundo ; but the whole tail is produced, the central feathers 

 being absolutely as long as in macroura, which is a larger bird. The outer web 

 of the lateral tail feather is very dark colored. — even more so than is that of 

 macroura, — and the outer webs of the other feathers are shaded with grayish ; 

 but in the adult it is probable that the colors will be the same with those of the 

 last-named species. A striking feature of Pikei is the pure white of the whole 

 under parts, of the rump, and of the neck behind between the black pileum and 

 the back, there being not the slightest trace of the plumbeous wash, so conspic- 

 uous in macroura, hirundo, etc. The species in this respect agrees with S. para- 

 disea. and, like that species, may perhaps, during the breeding season, acquire 

 a rosy tint on the under parts. 



I regard this species as intermediate between S. macroura and paradisea. 

 tQJUgh most closely allied to the former. In the foregoing remarks the differ- 

 ences between the two have been pointed out. With the latter — S. paradisea — it 

 agrees in several particulars : slenderness of bill, color of under parts and of 

 feet, &c. It is at once to be distinguished by its much darker colored upper 

 parts, different markings of primaries, pure white rump, slenderer and smaller 

 bill and feet, greater elongation of central tail feathers, &c. 



The acquisition of perfect specimens of various stages of this interesting Tern, 

 of whose changes of plumage we can only judge by analogy, and with whose 

 habits we are entirely unacquainted, is a particular desideratum in North Amer- 

 ican Ornithology. 



Sterna pauadisea Briinn. 



Slerna paradisea, Brunnich, Orn. Bor. 1764, p. 46, and of recent authors. Law- 

 rence, Gen, Rep. 1858, 863. 



Sterna Dougalli, Montagu, Orn. Diet. Suppl. 1&13, and of most authors, inclu- 

 ding Audubon and Nuttall. 



Sterna Macdougalli, Macgillivray, Man. Ora. ii. p. 233. 



Thalassxa Dougalli, Kanp. 



'Hydrocecropis Dougalli, Boie, Isis, 1844, p. 179. 



DiAG. — (nupt. temp, ad.) S. rostro tenue, nigro, b.<\sin versus rubescente, 

 pedibus rubro-aurantiis ; cauda longissima, valde forficata, fere albida. remigi- 

 bus omnibus interne albo-marginatis ad apices ipsas ; coi pore supra perlaceo, 

 subtus rosaceo-alho. 



Habitat. — Atlantic coasts of Europe and America. 



In a number of equally adult examples, I find that the color of the bill varies : 

 in most the black extends nearly or quite to the base, in others fully the basal 

 third of the bill is reddish. The extreme points of both mandibles are yellow- 

 ish. The color of the mantle is lighter than that of any other species; the 

 tail, exceedingly long and tapering, is of so light a pearly blue as to be almost 

 white. A most striking feature of coloration of this species consists in the 

 well-defined, broad white inner margins of all the primaries extending quite 

 around the tips of the feathers, on to the outer webs on the first and second 

 primaries. Immature and winter specimens have the bill brownish black ; the 

 front white; the crown and nape dull black, variegated with white. The lateral 

 tail feathers want the great elongation and attenuation they acquire during the 

 breeding season, the tail being no more deeply forked than that of Forsteri, or 

 even of hirundo. 



This species is so distinct in characters, that a comparison with any other is 

 needless. 



The American bird has never, I believe, been separated from the European. 

 The specimens I have compared appear identical in every respect. 



1862.] 




552 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Sterna antillarum Coues ex Lesson. 



Sterna miniiia, Wilson, 1813; Bonaparte, 1828; Audubon, 1838; sed non Lin- 



nffii, 177G. 

 Sterna argentea, Xuttall, Man. Orn. 1834, ii. 280; sed non Princip. Maxim, quas 



species Braziliensis. 

 Sterna frenata, Gambel, Pr. A. N. S. Ph. 1848, iv. 128. 

 Sternula antillarum, Lesson, Descriptions de Mammiferes et d'oiseaux recemment 



de converts, &c., Paris, 1847, p. 256. Adultus. 

 Sternula melajiorhyncha. Lesson, op. et loc. cit. Juvenis. 



DiAG. — S. Sternse minutce similis, ejusdemque staturte ; sed rostro breriore et 

 valdfe graciliore, vitta frontale angustiore, dorso, uropygio, caudaque supra con- 

 coloribus, coerulescentibus-perlaceis. 



Habitat. — Atlantic coast of North America, from Labrador to Texas, and 

 ranging further south into the Antilles. Great lakes and rivers of interior of 

 North America. Not on the Pacific coast ? 



The bill of this species, as usual in the subfamily, varies somewhat in length ; 

 but the longest bills before me do not equal the shortest of the European bird. 

 The slenderness of the bill, which is very marked in comparison with its trans- 

 atlantic congener, is coustantly preserved. The black tip of the bill, usually 

 from one and a half to two-tenths of an inch in length, is sometimes reduced to 

 a mere point ; but it is very rarely wanting altogether. The white frontal lunula 

 varies within narrow limits, probably widening somewhat with increasing 

 age: but it never, I believe, attains the ordinary breadth of that of the Euro- 

 pean. The neck behiud, between the black pileum and the back, is a somewhat 

 lighter shade than the latter, but the difference is scarcely noticeable. The 

 pearl gray of tlie back and wings extends unchanged on the rump, upper cov- 

 erts, and the inner tail feathers quite to their tips; but the outer vanes of the 

 lateral tail feathers, and their bases, are white. As described by most authors, 

 the two outer primaries in the great majority of adult spring birds are black, 

 their shafts white, their inner webs broadly bordered with white, except toward 

 the tips; but specimens frequently occur which have the three or four outer 

 primaries of this color. This is, without doubt, merely a seasonal feature, and 

 one quite independent of sex or age ; for all the specimens bearing this char-* 

 acter of primaries are adult birds, labelled as having been taken in July and 

 August. At this season of the year they have finished the duties of incubation, 

 and are about to put on the perfect winter dress, as the ragged and dilapidated 

 condition of their plumage testifies. Ic is well known that allied species of 

 Terns, such as S. hirundo, Forsteri, etc.. towards the close of the summer, at the 

 approach of the moult, entirely lose the delicate silvery hoariness with which 

 the primaries are glossed over during the breeding season — these parts becom- 

 ing of a plaio, dull, brownish tint. The change in the present species is pre- 

 cisely analogous. 



The young of the year, taken in July and August, differ greatly from the adults. 

 The bill, though as stout at the base, is much shorter, less acute at the lip, and 

 wants the sharply-defined angle at the symphysis. It is brownish black, the 

 base of the under mandible dusky flesh color. The forehead is mostly white. 

 The crown and occiput are variegated with brownish black and white, the for- 

 mer color mostly aggregated iuto a postocular patch. The back and wing cov- 

 erts are lightly washed over with the pearl gray of the adults; but this color is 

 greatly obscured, and its continuity interrupted by dark brown crescentic or 

 hastate spots, one or more on each feather, which give the upper parts a mottled 

 appearance. The primaries are all grayish black, growing successively lighter, 

 and more and more glossed with silvery, from without inwards ; the inner webs 

 of all bordered with white. This white is broadest on the outer primary, but 

 falls considerably short of the tip ; it grows narrower, but at the same time 

 longer, on the others, until on the inner ones it goes quite around the tip to the 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. OOo 



ouier web. The tail is not deeply forked, but simply emarginate, the difference 

 being about that which attains between the adult and young of Hirundo horrco- 

 rum. I have never seen it of quite the shape figured by Audubon ; but in his 

 plate it is very accurately colored. 



This species is so very distinct from S. minuta, that it is a little singular that 

 :bey should ever have been confounded. The following are the 



Differential Diagnoses of the American and European birds. 



S. minuta. — Bill along the culmen 1-20 inches, height at base -27 ; width ot 

 frontal lunula --iO. Rump, upper tail coverts and tail pure white, in marked 

 contrast to the pearl blue of the back and wings. 



5. antiUarum. — Bill along culmen 105 inches, height at base -25; width of 

 frontal lunula -30. Pearl biue of upper parts continued uninterruptedly on to 

 the rump, tail coverts and tail. 



These differences are all I can discover between the two species ; quite enough, 

 however, to permanently separate them. Nattall states that the " Silvery 

 Tern is about 9^ to 10 inches long: the European species 8 to Sj only." It is 

 difiBcult to determine the exact length of a species from dried skins: but in this 

 ;ase it is certain that no such difference exists. In fact, judging from the wings 

 and tarsi, — parts which do not change in dimensions in drying, — the two are 

 nearly or quite identical in size ; and I am sure that the difference, if any, is 

 not greater than is found between individuals of either species. Both appear 

 :o range from eight to nine inches in length. I cannot appreciate the difference 

 in the color of the upper parts mentioned by Nuttall. 



But. while our pretty little Tern thus rejoices in unimpeachable claims to 

 specific distinction, it has not been equally fortunate in retaining for any length 

 of time undisputed possession of a title of its own. By the earlier writers on 

 North American Ornithology it was confounded with the European bird, and 

 called Sterna minuta. Linn. Xuttall, in 18.34, was the first to vindicate its claims 

 :o specific distinction from its European analogue. This author, however, while 

 be gives correctly enough its essential characters, commits the grave error of 

 referring it to the Brazilian S. argentea of Prince Maximilian, — quite a different 

 bird. Nuttall appears to have made the mistake in this wise. He evidently 

 □ever examined a specimen of S. argentea ; for he says, " That our bird is that 

 of Brazil we have no further evidence than the slight notice of Temminck." 

 Now Temminck's* remark is as follows: " Cette espece," — S. minuta, — "est 

 absolument la meme dans I'Amerique septentrionale. Les voyageurs au Brezil 

 ont aus?i trouve dans ces coutrees une petite hirondelle-de-mer modelce sur les 

 rbrmes de la uotre. Mais elle forme une espece distincte, bien caracterizee par 

 son bee p'us robuste, qui est entierement d'un beau jaune clair ; les distributions 

 des couleurs offrent aussi quelques dispirites. Le prince de Nicuweid indique 

 cette espece sous le nom de Sterna argentea. Voy. v. i. p. 67." With only this 

 brief indication to guide him, and impressed with the different distribution of 

 ihe colors of the upper parts of S. minuta and antiUarum, Nuttall might readily 

 overlook the discrepancies mentioned in the size of the bill, and in this manner 

 refer the American bird to the Brazilian. 



In the Pi-oceedings of the Philadelphia Academy for 1848, Dr. Gambel points 

 out the distinctive features of the present species and the S. argentea, and oar 

 bird being thus left without a name, he applies to it the exceedingly appropriate 

 one of S./renata, by which it has been known from that date up to the present 

 rime. . I am therefore very reluctant to supersede it by any other; but the 

 Sternida antiUarum of Lesson undoubtedly refers to the present species, and 

 has priority in point of date. Lesson's description (vide op. cit.) is essentially 

 as follows : "Differs from S. minuta in its shorter biU, of orange color, tipped 

 with black; the white frontal band narroioer. Two outer quills bordered with 



1862.] 



* Man. d'Orn. toI. ii. p. 753. 




554 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



black ; tarsi orange. Lives on the banks of the Guadaloupe." Here, it will be 

 noticed, that though the characters are so brief, the peculiar features of bill 

 and frontal lunula are given with such precision, that there can be no doubt of 

 the propriety of referiing the description to the species now under considera- 

 tion. 



Immediately following the description of the S. antillarum, there is instituted 

 (1. c.) a Sternula melanorhyncha, Less., with substantially the following charac- 

 ters : " A little stouter than the preceding ; diflFers from it and S. minuta in 

 the straight and black bill. The white front of small extent. Black of head 

 above extends to middle of neck. Black of sinciput mixed with white ; lowe- 

 neck white above, the gray of the upper part of the body washed with brown- 

 ish. Tail short, little forked; the lateral feathers tipped with slender filaments. 

 Tail pale grayish white, the outer quills broadly margined with brown." It is 

 evident from almost every paragraph of this description, more particularly the 

 mention of the black bill, the sinciput mixed with white, and the upper parts 

 washed with brownish, that Lesson had in view an immature or winter Tern. 

 The habitat given is the same as that of the preceding, — antillarum, — and I 

 have but little doubt that the description is that of the young bird of the spe- 

 cies now under consideration, in which the characters are almost exactly as given 

 by Lesson. Indeed, a specimen before me agrees exactly with the description, 

 even to the lateral tail feathers tipped with slender filaments, — said filaments 

 being the termination of the shaft of the feather, from which the web has beec 

 worn away. I therefore quote Slernula melanorhyncha, Less., as a synonym of 

 the present species. 



Genus HYDROGHELIDON Boie. 



Bydrochdidon, Boie, Isis, 1822, p. 5G3. Type S. nigra Linn. 

 Yiralva, Leach, Stephen's Zool. 182G, xiii. p. 166. Same type. 

 PeJodes. Kaup, Sk. Ent. Eur. Thierw. 1826, 107. Type Sterna leuropareia, bat- 

 terer. 



Ch. — Bill a little shorter than the head, longer than the middle toe and claw ; 

 very delicate, slender, acute ; culmen and commissure decidedly declinato-con- 

 vex*, the amount of curvature increasing towards the lip ; outline of rami and 

 gonys both concave, the former most so : the angle separating them prominent 

 and'very acute. Wings exceedingly long, pointed, of same color as back, with- 

 out distinct markings on either web. Tail rather short, contained 2^ times in 

 the wings, only moderately emarginate, (much as in Gelochelidon.) the lateral 

 feathers but little exceeding the next, not tapering and acuminate ; all the 

 feathers broad and rounded. Feet slender and short : tarsi much abbreviated, 

 rather less than the middle toe alone. Toes moderately long ; the webs rather 

 narrow, and very deeply incised. Size small, general form delicate ; colors 

 mostly black, the wings and tail plumbeous. 



A genus distinguished from Sterna proper chiefly by its very slender attenu- 

 ated bill, with its decurved tip : its short tail, of a very different shape ; its 

 deeply incised interdigital webs and its very peculiar style of coloration. Other 

 differences, however, will be noted in the preceding diagnosis. North America 

 contains but a single representative,— the young of which was described by 

 Wilson us S. plumbea, hut which is in all probability identical with the well- 

 known European //. Jissipes. Other closely-allied species of Europe are the H. 

 nigra, (of LiDnaeus=:ir. leucoptera of most authors), and H. hybrida (of Pallas 

 =//. leucopareia of most authors.) 



The principal synonym of Hydrochelidon is Viralva of Leach, (1826.) based 

 upon the same type. Felodes of Kaup. 1829, founded upon //. leucopareia. is 

 also strictly a synonym of Hydrochelidon. 



Hydrochelidon fissipes G. R. Gr. ex Linn. 

 Sterna fissipes, Linn. Svst. Nat, i. 1T66, 228. Not of Pallas. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 555 



IlydrocheUdon fissipes, G. R. Gray. Gen. Birds, iii. 18-49, 660. 



Sterna nigra, Brisson, and of authors. Not of Linn. 



Hydrochelidon nigra. Bole, Isis, 1822, p. 563. 



Viralva nigra. Leach. Steph. Gen. Zool. 1826, xiii. p. 167. 



Sterna n:evia, Linnaeus, S. N. i. 1766, 228. Young. 



Sterna plumbea, Wilson, Am. Orn. vii. 1813, 83, pi. Ix. Young. 



Hydrochelidon plumbea, Lawrence, Gen. Rep. 1858, 864. 



Habitat. — Europe. North America generally, both on the sea-coast, and in the 

 interior. 



This species in all its changes of plumage is too well known to require any 

 descriptions. 



I have critically compared quite a series of European and American speci- 

 men?, in all stages of plumage, but have been entirely unable to detect the 

 slightest discrepancies between the birds of the two continents. The speci- 

 mens before me are all absolutely identical in size and relative proportions of 

 different parts ; and the colors of those of the same age correspond minutely- 

 There do not appear to exist the slighest characters upon which to base 

 specific distinction. 



The first distinctive name applied to the American bird vras phtmbea, of Wil- 

 son, based upon the immature bird, he probably, however, not recognizing it as 

 the young, or desiring to separate it from the European species. The birds of 

 the two continents were first formally separated by Bouaparte, in 1833, in his 

 Comparative List, and his example has been followed by the majority of subse- 

 quent American authors. 



To G. R. Gray, I believe, is due the credit of elucidating the synonomy of 

 thia, as well as of the other species of the genus, which was in a state of great 

 confusion. The proper name of the present species appears to he fissipes, Linn., 

 the name nigra, Linn., usually applied to it, really referring to the white-winged 

 black Tern of Europe, of which leucoptera is the most firmly established syno- 

 nym. Mr. Gray has also shown that the proper name of the whiskered Tera 

 usually given as lextcopareia Natterer, is hybrida of Pallas. 



Genus HALIPLANA Wagler. 



Onychoprion. Wagler, Isis, 1832, p, 277, Type S. serrata, Forster. 

 Haliplana, "Wagler, Isis, 1832, p. 1224. Type S. fuliginosa, Gm. 



Ch. — Bill as long as the head, but little less than the tarsus and middle toe 

 together, perfectly straight, stout, especially at base, where it is nearly as broad 

 as high, tip rather acute. Culmen but very slightly convex ; gonys about 

 straight, so ascending as to make the commissure nearly straight ; rami slightly 

 convex, the prominence between them and the gouys illy developed, not acute. 

 Nostrils somewhat more anterior tlian in Sterna, not nearly so much so as in 

 Anous, in a decided, but rather irregularly-defined sulcus, which terminates a 

 little beyond the middle of the bill in several longitudinal striae. Outline of 

 feathers at base of bill much as in Sterna. Wings exceedingly long, pointed, 

 but the first primary scarcely surpassing the second. Tail very long, deeply 

 forked, the feathers broader and stiffer than in .S'^e?-/itf, not so rogularly tapering, 

 but still quite acuminate at their tips. Legs rather long for this subfamily : 

 the length chiefly apparent by a greater denudation of the tibia. Toes rather 

 short: the middle with its claw exceeding the tarsus but slightly. Size mode- 

 rate ; general form slender and graceful. Bicolor. 



A genus distinguished from Sterna by several important characters. In the 

 shape of the bill, position of nostrils, proportions of primaries, color to some ex- 

 tent, there is an evident approach to 4noi/». It is, however, decidedly to be re- 

 ferred to the typical Sternetf, rather than to the Megalopterex. 



Wagler's Onychoprion is based upon the S. serrata of Forster ; while his Hali- 

 plana has as type S. fuliginosa, Gm. The former of these species — S. serrata — 



1862.] 




556 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



is in all probability identical with faliginosa, and is at all events strictly con- 

 generic with it. This being the case, perhaps Onychoprion ought to be employed 

 for the genus ; as it is instituted several pages in advauce of Ilaliplana. But, as 

 the conflicting names are by the same author, and bear the same date, I have 

 preferred to adopt Ilaliplana, which, besides being based upon the old and well- 

 known type Juliffinosa, has the merit of being much more euphonious. 



Haliplana fuliginosa Wagl. ex Gm. 

 Sterna fidiginosa, Gral. S. N., 1788, i. 605, et auct. 

 Ilaliplana J'ulif/inosa, Wagler, Isis, 1832, p. 1224. 

 Onychoprion fuliglnosn, Gould, Introd. B. aust., 1848, 113. 

 Sterna serrata, Forster, Descrip. Anim. 1844, 276. Adult. 

 Onychoprion serrata, Wagler, Isis, 1832, p. 277. 

 Sterna oaMiensis, Bloxham, Voy. I51onde, 1826, p. 251. Fide Cass. 

 Sterna guttata, Forster, Descript. Anim. 1844, p. 211. Juv. 



Anous rkerminieri, Lesson, Descr. <le Mammiferes et d'oiseaux, &c., 1847, p. 255. 

 Juv. 



DiAG. — H. bicolor, corpore supra, rostro, pedibus, remigibusque nigris ; cor- 

 pore subtus, fronte et rectrici lateral! nisi apicem versus, albis. — (Adultus). 



Minor; rostre graciliore ; cauda minus forficata ; corpore toto brunnescente- 

 nigro, subtus diluliore, abdomine tectricibusque caudalibus inferiuribusgriseo- 

 albis ; tectricibus alarum late albo-terminatis. — (^Juvenis). 



The plumage of the young of the year of this species differs so remarkably 

 from that of the adult, that I have above contrasted the diagnoses of the two 

 ages. While the plumage of the adult is well known, a description of that of 

 the young may not be here out of phice. 



{Young of the year.) — The bill is much smaller and weaker than that of the 

 adult ; its upper mandible black ; its lower, together with the eyes and feet, are 

 dusky red. The whole bodj' is a uniform brownish or fuliginous black, — this 

 color deepening on the primaries, growing lighter on the under parts, until on 

 the abdomen and under tail coverts it is dull grayish white. The wing coverts 

 and scapulars are all broadly tipped with white, giving a very marked spotted 

 appearance to the parts. The feathers of the back, rump and upper tail coverts 

 are narrowly margined with dull rufous, which gives a transversely waved 

 appearance to the parts. The tail is uniformly of much the color of the wings : 

 all the feathers at their extreme tips fading into light brown. 



The above description is taken from a bird in the collection of the U. S. 

 Exploring Expedition, under Captain Wilkes, U. S. N., taken at Hendin Island. 

 It is labelled " S. fuliginosa, Gm. juv.," by Mr. Cassin. I have carefully com- 

 pared the series of adults in the same collection, and cannot find that they 

 differ in the least from specimens from the West Indies and Southern States. 



Upon the above-described state of plumage of Haliplana fuliginosa is based, 

 I take it, the Anous Vherminieri of Lesson. (" Descriptions de Mammiferes et 

 d'oiseaux recemment decouverts," 1847, page 255.) A condensed translation 

 of this author's description is as follows : " Length 24 cent. Bill black above. 

 red on the lower mandible ; tarsi red. Plumage uniform dusky black beneath, 

 the lower belly and under tail coverts white, washed with gray; above black- 

 ish brown, dark and uniform on the head and neck, enammelled with trans- 

 verse white spots on the greater wing coverts, and rayed with rufous on the 

 back, rump and wing coverts." It will be seen that this description corresponds 

 in the minutest particulars, which render it but little if at all doubtful, what 

 bird he had under consideration. His specimens came from the Antilles near 

 the Guadaloupe. 



I have also quoted, as a synonym of the young, <S. guttata of Forster. This 

 author (loco citato) says : " S. cauda forficata corpore fuliginoso, dorso tec- 

 tricibusque albomaculatis, p'^dibus nigris," — and a part of his further descrip- 

 tion is : " Corpus magnitudine c\rQ,iiQ\' Sternse hirundinis.'^ . . . "Corpus 



[Deo. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPiriA. 557 



omne fuliginosum ; abdomine circa anum albicante: fronte fusco-cinerea." 

 The dimensions are given as length 14 inches; bill 1.50; tarsus and toes 2.75. 

 This description in all respects applies very exactly to a stage of plumage a 

 little more adult than that characterized as Anous rherminieri, in which the 

 under parts have become lighter, and there are signs of the white front. 



Sterna serraia, of the same author (page 276), is to be referred to S.fuliginosa, 

 provided the Pacific bird be the same as the Antilles and Florida, which we 

 have no reason to doubt. I quote S. oahuensis on the avithoriiy of Mr. Cassin, 

 not having an opportunity of consulting the reference. 



Section MEGALOPTEREJE. 

 Jf the preceding groups which have been considered as genera — and they 

 are so held by the majority of modern writers — be really such, then the Anoui 

 stolidiis is entitled to more than generic separation from the other representa- 

 tives of the subfamily. The discrepancies in every particular of form, as well 

 as of pattern of coloration, are very marked and decided. In the following 

 diagnosis are given the characters which present themselves in the Anous stoli- 

 dus : my want of familiarity with exotic forms preventing me from distinguish- 

 ing with accuracy the features of the section from those that are strictly cha- 

 racteristic of its typical genus. 



Genus ANOUS Leach. 

 Anoii%^ Leach, Stephens' Gen. Zool. 1826, 139. Type S. siolida, L. 

 Megalopterus, Boie, Isis, 1826, 980. Same type. 



Ch. — Bill greatly exceeding the tarsus, rather longer than the middle toe and 

 claw, as long as the head, moderately robust, depressed at the base, where it is 

 very broad (as broad as high), compressed in the rest of its extent, tapering 

 to the rather acute, attenuated and somewhat decurved tip. Culmen about 

 straight for half its length, regularly decurved towards the tip, rounded, and 

 towards the base very broad and flat. Commissure about straight to near the tip, 

 where it is regularly declinato-convex. Outline of both rami and gonys concave, 

 former most so ; the prominence which separates them being illy defined and not 

 acute. Both mandibles marked with numerous more or less distinct longi- 

 tudinal strise ; their cutting edges inflected. Nostrils situated far forwards, their 

 anterior extremity nearly half way to the tip of the bill, in a deep sulcus formed 

 by the rounded culmen and a prominent broad ridge which runs from the base 

 of the upper mandible, along its cutting edge to beyond the nostrils, where 

 it gradually becomes lost. Just above the base of this ridge there is a small 

 but distinct triangular fossa, separated by an oblique stria from the large nasal 

 sulcus. Outline of feathers at base of bill ver^' peculiar ; those on the culmen 

 have a broadly convex outline, and reach considerably beyond the lateral 

 feathers, which latter slope rapidly backwards with a slightly convex outline. 

 This is the reverse of Sterna, in which the feathers reach far forwards on the 

 sides of the upper mandible, and recede on the culmen to form an acute angle. 

 Wings only moderatelj' long for this subfamily, not very acute, the first primary 

 scarcely surpassing the second; all the primaries slightly falcate, very broad 

 almost to their rounded tips ; unicolor. Tail exceedingly long, more than half 

 the wing; rounded, the lateral feathers regularly much graduated; all the 

 featliers broad at the base, tapering to their somewhat acuminate tips, their 

 shafts stiffened. Tarsi moderately stout, exceedingly short, much less than the 

 middle toe without the claw. Lateral toes very long, the inner especially, 

 which is but little shorter than the outer. Hind toe well developed. Interdigi- 

 tal membranes very long and full, their margins even, unincised. Size mode- 

 rate ; general form stout; nearly unicolor ; colors very dark. 



Anous stolidus (Linn.) 

 Passer stulius, 'R&y, Syn. 154, fide Leach. 

 1862.] 




558 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Gaviafusca, Brisson, Ornith. pi. sviii. fig. 2. 



Sterna stoHda, Linn., S. N. 1766, i. 227, et auct. antiq. 



Anous stolidus, G R. Gray, Gen. Birds, 1849, iii. 661, et auct. recent. 



Megalopterus stolidus, Keys, et Bias., Wirb. Eur. 1840, 98. 



Anous niger, Stephens, Gen. Zool. 1826, xiii. 140. 



A comparison of the Floridan bird with that from the South Pacific, collected 

 by Wilkes' Exploring Expedition, shows some differences of color, form and 

 size, which, though not great, are well marked and quite constant in all the 

 epecimens I have examined. The bill of the Pacific bird is of the same length 

 as that of the Aiuerican, but is higher at the base, which gives it a somewhat 

 different shape. The toes are considerably longer, while the tarsus is of just 

 the same length; making a different relative length of tarsus and toes. The 

 wing is from a half to three-fourths of an inch longer ; the tail is very decidedly 

 longer, the difference being quite an inch. The central tail feathers are half an 

 inch shorter than the lateral feathers in the Pacific bird ; while in the American 

 the emargination is much less, only about a fourth of an inch. The differences 

 in color are slight. The American bird has the occiput bluish plumbeous, 

 which fades into pure white on the crown anteriorly; while the Pacific bird 

 has the occiput darker, and the crown ushy white instead of pure. The sides 

 of the head and neck all round, in the American bird, have a bluish plumbeous 

 wash, notably different from the general fuliginous, which is entirely wanting 

 in the Pacific bird. The feet of the American bird appear much darker in the 

 dried skin. 



Mr. Cassin, in the Ornithology of the Expedition, remarks upon these differ- 

 ences in the following words : " Numerous specimens from the shores and 

 islands of the Pacific Ocean present, with some degree of uniformity, small and 

 apparently unimportant differences from others from the Atlantic coast of North 

 America. The bill appears to be larger in the latter, and a slight dissimilarity 

 is observable in the colors. On careful comparison, however, we are not in- 

 clined to consider the bird of the Pacific as possessing characters sufficient :o 

 justify a distinct specific designation ; but venture to suggest that further 

 examination of specimens from localities in the two great oceans, and especi- 

 ally of the various immature plumages, is yet desirable." 



1 tabulate the differences between the two, leaving it to future investiga:ion 

 to determine their constancy and value. 



American Bird. Pacific Bird. 



Length of wing 10-00 to 10-50 inches 



Length of tail about 6-00, 



Height of bill at base -38. 



Length of tarsus 1 00. 



Length of middle toe and claw 1 45. 



Middle toe and claw 1-45 hundredths 

 of tarsus. 



Central tail feathers but slightly 

 shorter than the next. 



Occiput bluish plumbeous, becoming 

 pure white on the front. Sides of head 

 and necK all round with a decided 

 wash of bluish plumbeous. Feet nearly 

 black in dried skin. 



Length of wing 11-00 to 11-25. 



Length of tail about 7-00. 



Height of bill at base -43. 



Length of tarsus 1-00 (same). 



Length of middle toe and claw 1-60. 



Middle toe and claw 1-60 hundredths 

 of tarsus. 



Central tail feathers -50 of an inch 

 shorter than next. 



Occiput brownish ash, becoming ashy 

 white (not pure) on the front. Sides 

 of head and neck not notably different 

 from general fuliginous. Feet reddish 

 brown in dried skin. 



The difference in color appears very slight. I attach more importance to the 

 discrepancies in size and proportions. If the Pacific bird be really distinct 

 from the American, it has probably yet to receive a name ; for it is very differ- 

 ent from the various species o{ Anous mostly described by Mr. Gould. In that 

 event, it may be called a Axons frater. 



In the preceding pages are noticed all the Terns which are knows to inhabit 



[D€C. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 559 



Nort,h America. The fact of the writer's being actively engaged in professior.al 

 duties at a Military Hospital while comraitting to paper the results of his in- 

 vestigations, will be a sufficient excuse for any evidences of hasty composition 

 which may be apparent. 



Catalogue of the MIOCENE SHELLS of the Atlantic Slope. 

 BY T. A. CONRAD. 



In the Miocene or Upper Tertiary formation of the Atlantic Slope there 

 have been collected about five hundred and eighty species of shells, — two 

 hundred and seventy-two of which are Conchifera and three hundred and nine 

 Gasteropoda. The most northern limit of this formation appears to be in Glou- 

 cester County, New Jersey, and it underlies the eastern portions of Delaware, 

 Maryland, Virginia, North and South Carolina. I have included in the Miocene 

 formation that portion of the South Carolina Tertiary referred to the Pliocene 

 period by Tuomey and Holmes, because I can discover no line of demarcation 

 by which these tertiary strata can be divided into two distinct groups. The 

 extinct species common to South Carolina and the more Northern States are 

 numerous, and the fauna can only be regarded as that of one geological era. 

 Some few of the species described by Tuomey and Holmes from the South 

 Carolina Tertiary occur also in New Jersey, at the most northern boundary of 

 the Miocene. The per centage of recent species in South Carolina, it appears 

 to me, should be greatly reduced, — and I would reject from the list as many as 

 eighteen, consisting of the following shells: Busycon canaliculatum, B. per- 

 Tersum, Strephona literata, Littorina irrorata, Natica canrena, Dolium galea, 

 Pasciolaria gigantea, F. distans, Pholas costata, P. oblongata, Petricola pho- 

 ladiformis, Solen ensis, Lucina divaricata, L. Pennsylvanica, Cardium magnum , 

 Mactra similis, Yoldia limatula. Strigilla fluxuosa. It may be that all the 

 species are extinct, but I have not had an opportunity of comparing all tho?e 

 doubtful shells with the recent forms. Natica heros and N. duplicata. Sat/. 

 have fossil analogues in Maryland so closely resembling them tbat I find no 

 essential difference ; but the shells of this doubtful character are not more 

 than thirty in number out of five hundred and eighty-one species. Near the 

 coast, a Post-Pliocene or Pleistocene formation rests immediately on the Mio- 

 cene, replete with existing forms, but as a group resembling that of more 

 Southern latitudes on the coast of the United States. There is no inter- 

 mingling of extinct species between these two formations, and the passage is 

 almost as abrupt as between the Eocene and Miocene. 



The final subsidence of the Eocene appears to have been accompanied by 

 such an alteration of climate or other conditions as to have given origin to a 

 totally distinct terrestrial and marine fauna, the latter existing on an Eocene 

 and Cretaceous bed, extending from New Jersey to South Carolina inclusive, 

 and which appears to have been generally extinct and above the sea during ;he 

 existence of the European Pliocene faunas. 



.WbrJcs referred to. 



€'■ Miocene Foss. Conrad, Medial Tertiary or Miocene Fossils of the U. S, 



€. Foss. Shells of Tert. Form. Conrad, Fossil Shells of the Tertiary Forma- 

 tions of the United States. 1832. 



Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Transactions of the American Philosophical .So- 

 ciety of Philadelphia, vol. ix. n. s. 1845; vol. vi. n. s. 1839. 



Sillim. Journ. American Journal of Science and Arts. 



Journ. A. N. S. Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciencee of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Proceed. A. N. S. Proceedings ditto. 



1862.] 




560 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Flioc. Foss. S. C. Pliocene Fossils of South Carolina. 

 Bullet. Nat. Inst. Bulletin of the National Institution. 

 Emmons^ Geol. N. C. Geology of North Carolina. 



3IURICID^. 

 MUREX, Lin. 

 M. globosus, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 247, 105a. 



Subgenus Ptkrorytis, Conrad. 

 Fusiform ; six prominent recurved foliated ribs ; aperture 07ate ; cbaaael 

 closed. 



M umbrifer, C. Tert. Fo3S. 17, 3, 1. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 247, 104j. 

 M. sezeostaia, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 248, 106. 



TYPHIS, Montfort. 

 T, acuticosta, C. Journ. A. N. S. vi. 217, 9, 1. 1829. 



TROPHON, Mont. 

 T. (Fusns) tetricu3, C. Tert. Foss. 18, 3, 6. Foss. Med. Tert. pi. 46, fig. 4. 



FUSm^E. 

 FUSUS. 

 Subgenus Scalaspira, Conrad. 

 Fusus strumosus, C. Tert. Foss. 18, 3, 4. Foss. Med. Tert. pi. 49, fig. 3. 



NEPTUNEA, Bolten. 

 N. (Fusus) devexa, C. Foss. Med. Tert. pi. 49, fig. 8. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 309. 

 N. (Fusus) exilis, C. Tert. Foss. 17, 3, 2. Mioc. Foss. pi. 49, fig. 1. Tuomey 

 and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 150, 30, 5. Emmons, Geol. N. C 251, 

 111«? 

 N. (Fusus) equalis, Emmons, Geol. N. C 251, 11. 

 N. (Fusus) filosa, C. Proceed. A. N. S. 1863. 

 N. (Fusus) lamellosa, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 251. 112. 

 N. (Fusus) parilis, C. Tert. Foss. 18, 4, 2. Foss. Med. Tert. pi. 49, fig. 5. 

 N. (Fusus) rustica, C. Tert. Foss. 18, 4, 1. 



Fusus errans, C. Journ. A, N. S. vi. 223. 

 N. (Fusus) trossula, C. Tert. Foss. 18, 3, 5. Foss. Med. Tert. pi. 46. fig. 6. 



FASCIOLARIID^E. 

 BUSYCON, Bolten. 

 li. alveatum, C. Proceed. A. N. S. 1862, 583. 

 B. adversariura, C. Proceed. 1863. 



B. perversum, Tuomev and Holmes, (not Lam..) Plioc. Foss. S. C. 145. 29. 3. 

 B. carinatum, C. Proc. a' N. S. 1862, 286. 



B. (Pyrula) carica? Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 145, 29, 1. 

 B. (Fulgur) contrarium, C. Sill. Journ. xxxix. 387. Miocene Foss. pi. 45, f. 11. 



B. perversum, Emmons, (not Lam.,) Geol. N. C. 249, 107. 

 B. (Fulgur) coronatum, C. Bullet. Nat. Inst. 187. JJioc. Foss. pi. 46, f. 1. 



Pyrula canaliculata, Lyell, (not Lam.,) Man. Geol. 172, 151. 

 B. canaliferum, C. 



Busycon canaliculatum, Tuomey and Holmes, (not Lam.,) Plioc. Fo33. S. 

 C. 145, 29, 2. 



B. Carolinensis, Emmons, Geol. N C. 249, 108. 

 B. (Cassidulus) Carolinense, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 147,30.1. 

 B. (Pyrula) excavatura, C. Sill. Journ. xxxix. 387. Miocene Foss.pl. 45, f. 12. 



Cassiduhis Carolinensis? Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 147, 30. 1. 

 B. filosum, C. Proceed. A. N. S. 1862, 286. . 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 561 



B. (Fulgur) fusiforme, C. Bullet. Xat. Inst. 187. Miocene Foss. 82, 46, 3. 

 B. (Falgur) incite, C. Sillim. Journ. sxiii. 343. 



Busycon Conradi, Tuomey and Holmes,i^lioc. Foss. S. C. 174, 29, 4. 

 B. (Fulgur) maximum, C. Miocene Foss. pi. 47. 



B. (Fulgur) rugosum, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i, 307. Miocene Foss. pi. 46, f. 4. 

 B. scalaris, C. 

 B. (Fulgur) tuberculatum, C. Bullet. Xat. Inst. 185. Miocene Foss. pi. 46, f. 2. 



B. canaliculaium, Tuomey and Holmes, (notLam.,) Plioc. Foss. S. C. 146, 29. 

 B. scalarispira, C. Proceed. 1862, 584. 

 B. striatum, C. ib. 

 B. Tritonis, Proceed. 1862, 583. 



FASCIOLARIA, Lam. 

 F. alternata, Emmons, Geol. X. C. 253. 



F. gigantea? Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 152, 30, 9. 

 F. nodulosa, Emmons, Geol. X. C. 253, 116. 

 F. Tuomeyi, Holmes, Pliocene Foss. S! C. 152, 30, 10. 

 F? parvula, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 270, 37, 94. 

 F. rhomboidea, Rogers, Trans. Philos. Soc. vi. 307, 30, 3. 



F. distans, Tuomey and Holmes, (not Lam.,) Pliocene Foss. 151, 30. 7, 8. 

 Emmons, Geol. X. C. 252, 113. 

 F. Sparrowi, Emmons, Geol. X. C. 253, 115. 

 F. Woodii, Gabb, Journ. A. X. S. (second series,) iv. 375, 67, 7. 



Subgenus Terebraspira, Conrad. 

 Spire elevated, terebriform ; columella three-plaited, the plates interior. 

 F. acuta, Emmons, Geol. X. C. 254, 17. 

 F. elegans, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 252, 114. Proceed. A. X. S. 1862, 286. 



Subgenus Ltrosoma, Conrad. 

 F. (Fusus) sulcosa, C. Journ. A. X. S. vi. (1829.) 220, 9, 8. Proceed. A. X. S. 

 1862, 286. 



PERISTERXIA, Morch. 

 P. (Bucc.) filicata, C. Proceed. A. X. S. i. 326. 

 Fiisus caniiabinus ? C. " " " 



Colus dnereus, Tuomey and Holmes, Pliocene Foss. S. C. 150, 30, 6. 



PLEUR OTOMIDJE. 

 SURCULA, Gray. 

 S. (Pleurotoma) biscatenaria, C. Journ. A. X. S. vii. 140. 



Pleurotoma catenata, C. Journ. A. X. S. vi. 223, 9, 13. 

 8. (Pleurotoma) bella-crenata, C. Journ. A. X. S. viii. 185. 

 S. (Pleurotoma) communis, C. Journ. A. X. S. vi. 224, 9, 23. 

 S. engonata, C. Proceed. A. X. S. 1862, 285. 

 S. (Pleurotoma) gracilis, C. Journ. A. X. S. vi. 225, 9, 10. 



S. (Fleiirot.) incilifera, G. ib. vii. 140. 

 S. (Pleurotoma) Marylandica, C. Journ. A. X. S. viii. 185. 

 S. nodulifera, C. Proceed. A. X. S. 1862, 285. 

 S. (Pleurotoma) parva. C. Journ. A. X. S. vi. 225, 9, 18. 

 S. (Pleurotoma) rotifera, C. Journ. A. X. S. vi. 224, 9, 9. 

 S. rugata, C. Proceed. A. X. S. 1862, 285. 

 S. (Pleurotoma) tricatenaria, C. Journ. A. N. S. vii. 139. 

 S- (Pleurotoma) Yirginiana, C. vii. 138. 



DRILLIA, Gray. 

 D. arata, C. Proceed. A. X. S. 1862, 285. 

 D. bella, C. Proceed. A. X. S. 1862, 285. 



1862.] 39 




562 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



D. distans, C. Proceed. A. N. S. 1862, 285. 



D. (Pleurot.) dissimilis, C. Journ. A. N. S. vi. 224, 9, 11. 



Fimispy;jm;tus? H. C. Lea, Bllilos. Trans, ix. 270, 37, 95. 

 D. (Pleurot.; eburnea, C. Proceed. A. N. S. 1862, 285. 

 D. (Pleurot.) elegans, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 265, 146. 

 D. (Pleurot.) flexuosa, ib. 148. 

 D. impressa, C. Proceed. A. N. S. 1862, 285. 

 D. (Pleurot.) limatula, C. Journ. A. N. S. vi. 224, 9, 12, 

 D. (Pleurot.) lunata, H. C. Lea, Pbilos. Trans, new series, pi. 37, fig. 93. 



Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. 132, 27, 16, (Turris.) 

 P. lunata, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 264, 144. 

 D. (Pleurot.) muliisecta, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 326. 

 D. (Pleurot.) pyrenoides, C. Journ. A. N. S. vii. 139. 

 D. (Pleurot.) tuberculata, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 265, 147. 



MANGELIA. 

 M. Virginiana, C. Proceed. A. N. kS. 1862, 286. 



TRITOmiD^E. 

 BURSA, Bolten. RANELLA, Lam. 

 Subgenus Eupleura, H. and A. Adams. 

 Bursa (Ranella) caudata. Say, Journ. A. N. S. ii. 236, 1822. 



Apollon caudata, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 142, 28, 15. 



BUCCINIDJE. 

 TRITL\, Risso. 



T. (Bucc.) altilis, C. Tert. Foss. 19, 4, 6. 



T. (Fusus) anomala, H. C. Lea, Trans. Philos. Soc. ix. p!. 37. fig. 97. 



T. (Bucc.) arata. Say, Journ. A. N. S. iv. 127, 7, 4. 



T. (Bucc.) bidentata, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 257, 126. 



T. (Bucc.) bilix, C. Proceed. A.N. S. i. 308. 



T. (Bucc.) fossulata, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 308. 



T. (Nassa) impressa, H. C. Lea, Philos. Trans, ix. pL 37, fig. 100. 



T. (Bucc.) harpuloidee, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 326. 



T. (Bucc.) interrupta, C. Sillim. Journ. xli. 345, 2, 2. 



T. irrorata, C. Bucdnum obsoletum, Tuomey and Holmes, (not Say,) Plioc. 



Foss. S. C. 135, 28, 5. 

 T. (Bucc.) moniliformis, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 256, 125. 

 T. (Bucc.) multilunata, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 256, 124. 

 T. (Bucc.) multirugata, C. Sillim. Journ. xli. 345. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 255, 



121. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 133, 28, 2. 

 T. (Bucc.) porcina, Say, Journ. A. N. S. iv. 126. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. 



Foss. S. C. 133, 28, 1. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 250, 122. 

 T. (Bucc.) pr^rupta, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 308. 

 T. scalaris, C. Proceed. A. N. S. 18G2, 286. 

 T. (Bucc.) sexdentata, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 308. 

 T. I Nassa) trivittata? Say, Journ. A. N. S. ii. 231. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. 



Foss. S. C. 135, 28, 4. 

 T. (Bucc.) Tuomeyi, H. C. Lea, Philos. Trans, ix. pi. 37, fig. 97. 

 T. (Bucc.) laqueata, C. Tert. Foss. 19, 4, 5. 



Subgenus Bclliopsis, Conrad. 

 T. (Buccinum) Integra, C. Bullet. Nat. Inst. No. 2, 194, 2, 5. 



Buc. puiillum ? H. C. Lea, Trans. Philos. Soc. ix. pi. 37, fig. 98. 

 T ? (Fusus) anomala, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 271, 37, 96, (young shell.) 

 T. Marylandica, C. Proceed. A. N. S. 1862, 287. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 563 



T. ovata, C. Proceed.- A. N. S. 1862, 287. 



T. (Fusus) pygmaea,H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer, Philos. Soc. ix. 270, 37,95, (young 



shell.) 

 T. (Nassa) quadrata, C. Journ. A. N. S. \i. 226. Proceed. A. N. S. 1862, 287. 



FURPUEW^. 



CRONIA ? H. and A. Adams. 



C. (Purpura) tridentata, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 137, 28, 9. 



Cantharus Cumber landianus, Gabb, Journ. A. N. S. (2d series,) iv. 375, 67, 6. 



ECPHORA, Conrad. 

 E. (Fusus) 4-costatu3, Say, Journ. A. X. S. iv. 127. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 310. 

 Miocene Foss. 84, 48, 2. 



DACTYLUS, Klein. 

 D ? (Oliva) ancillariformis, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 274, 37, 105. 



D. (Oliva) canaliculatus, H. C. Lea, Trans. Philos. Soc. ix. pi. 37, fig. 104. 



Emmons, Geol. N. C. 259. 

 D. Carolinensis, C. Proceed. A. N. S. 1862, 584. 



Oliva litterata, C. (not Lam.) Sillim. Journ. xli. 345, 2, 1. 

 Strephona litterata, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 140. 23, 13. 

 Emmons, Geol. N. C 259, 130. 



Subgenus Strephoxa, Browne. 

 D. eboreus, C. Proceed. A. N. S. 1862, 287. 

 D. (Oliva) idonea, C. Sillim. Journ. xli. 344. Proceed. A. N. S. 1863. 



Subgenus Olivella. 

 D. (Oliva) duplicatus, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 309. Emmons, Geol. X. C. 131u? 



VOL UTIDJE. 

 VOLUTA, Lam. 

 V. solitaria, C. Journ. A. N. S. vi. 218. 



Y. Trenholmii, Tuomev and Holmes, Pliocene Foss. S. C. 128, 27, 7. 

 V. obtusa, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 263, 141. 



Subgenus Yolutifuscs, Conrad. 

 V. mutablis, C. 



Fasciolaria mutabilis, C. Journ. A. N. S. vii. 135. Sill. Journ. xli. 346, 2, 7. 

 V. mutahilis, Tuomev and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 128, 27,5. Emmons, 

 Geol. N. C. 2e2^ 



MEGOPTYGMA, Conrad, 

 Fusiform: smooth or entire; beak sinuous ; plaits very large, the upper one 

 very thick, suboblique. 



M. (Voluta) sinuosa, Gabb, Proceed. A.N. S. Nov. 1861, 367. 

 PLEIOPTYGMA, Conrad. 

 Subfasiform; aperture long; columella with very oblique plaits, numerous, 

 alternated in size, or irregular, the largest being the second one from above. 

 P. (Mitra) Carolinensis, C. Sillim. Journ. xli. 345. Tuomey and Holmes, Plio- 

 cene Foss. S. C. 129, 27, 9. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 260, 132. 



PORCELLANA, Adans. 

 Subgenus Yolotella, Swains. 

 P. (.Marginella) conulus, H. C. Lea, Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. ix. 273, :;7. 102. 

 P. disians, C. n. s. 

 1862.] 




564 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



1*. olivfeformis, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 131, 27, 12. 



Marijindla olivirformis ^ Emmons, Geol. N. C. 261, 133. 



Subgenus Glabella, Swains. 

 P. (Marg.) constricta, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 261, 135. 

 P. (Marg.) denticulata, C. Journ. A. N. S. vi. 225, 9, 21. 

 P. (Marg.) eburneola, C. Journ. A. N. S. vii. 141. 



P. (Marg.) exilis, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 274, 37, 103. 

 P. (Marg.) inflexa, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 261, 137. 

 P. (Marg.) limatuia, C. Journ. A. N. S. vii. 140. Miocene Foss. pi. 47, f. 11. 



Tuomey and Holmes. Plioc. Foss. S. C. 130, 27, 10. Emmons, Geol. 



N. C. 261, 134. 

 P. (Marg.) ovata, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 261, 136. 



Subgenus Porcellanella, Conrad. 

 P. hella, C. Proceed. A. N. S. 1863. 



ERATO? Risso. 

 E. IsBvis, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 262, 139. 



COL JJMBELLINJE. 

 AM7CLA, H. and A. Adams. 

 Subgenus Astyris, H. and A. Adam^. 

 A. granulifera, C. Proceed. A. N. S. 1862, 287. 

 A. communis, C. Proceed. A. N. S. 1862, 287. 

 A. reticulata, C, " " " 287. 



CASSIDIDJE. 



SEMICASSIS, Klein. 

 S. (Cassis) cfelata, C. Journ. A. N. S. vi. 218, 9, 14. 



SCONSIA, Gray. 

 S. (Cassis) Hodgii, C. Sillim. Journ. xli. 346, 2, 10. 



Galeodia Hodgii, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 138, 28, 10. Em- 

 mons, Geol. N. C. 257, 128. 



BOLIIDJE. 

 DOLIUM. 

 D. galea? Lam. Tuomey and Holmes, Pliocene Foss. S. C. 139, 28, 11. 

 D? octocostatum, Emmons, Geol. N. (3. 258, 129. 



SYCOTYPUS, Browne. FICUS, Rousseau. 

 S. (Pyrula) reticulata ? Lam. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 149, 30, 3. 



NATICID^^. 

 NATICA. 

 N. plicatella, Conrad. N. canrma, C. (not Lam.,) Sill. Journ. xli. 344. Tuo- 

 mey and Holmes, Pliocene Foss. S. C. 115, 25, 17. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 

 267, 152. 

 N. Caroliniana, C. Sill. Journ. xli. 346, 2, 8. Tuomey and Holmes, Pliocene 

 Foss. S. C. 116, 25, 18. 

 N. {Natica) hemicrypta, Gabb, Journ. A. N. S. (2d series.) iv. 375, 67, 5. 

 N. sphaerula and crassilabrum, (immature or doubtful sp.,) H. C. Lea, Trans. 

 Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 254, 36, 52. 



Neyerita, Risso. 

 N. (Xatica) duplicata? Say, Tuomey and Holmes, Pliocene Foss. S. C. 114, 25, 

 16. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 266, 150. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 565 



N. percallosa, C. Sill. Journ. xli. 348. Einmons, Geol. \. C. 267, 151. 



Subgenus Ldnatia, Gray. 

 N. catenoides, Wood, British Crag. Moll. 141, 16, 10. 



N, [Nalka) heros, Conrad, (not Say,) Tuomey and Holmes, Pliocene Foss- 

 S. C. 114, 25, 15. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 267, 149. 

 N. (Natica) interna, Say, Journ. A.N. S. iv. 125, 7, 2. 

 N. (Natica) perspectiva, Rogers, Trans. Philos. Soc. vi. 3C, 3. 



SIGARETUS, Lam. 

 Subgenus Naticina, Gray. 

 S. (Natica) fragilis, C. Journ. A. N. S. vi. 222,9,3. Emmoas,Geol. N. C.267, 153. 

 iV". a^eria, 11. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. pi. 36, f. 51. 



SCALARWuE. 

 SCALA, Klein. 

 S. arctata, C. n. s. 



S. (Scalaria) aciculata, H. C. Lea, Trans. Philos. Soc. pi. 36, f. 63. 

 S. (Scalaria) clathrus? Lam. Tuomey and Holmes, Pliocene Foss. S. C. 124, 



26,15. 

 S. (Scalaria) curta, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 271, 16.5. 

 S. distans, C. n. g. 



S. (Scalaria) micropleura, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. pi. 36, f. 67. 

 S.. (Scalaria) microstoma, H. C. Lea, ib. f. 68. 

 S. (Scalaria) procera, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 326. 

 S. (Scalaria) multistriata? Say. Tuomey and Holmes, Pliocene Foss. S. C. 



120, 26, 14. Emmons, Geol. N. C."'27l, 164. 



Subgenus Sthenobytis, Conrad. 



Ovate, thick ; whorls partially united; ribs very thick, distant, recurved; 

 large whorl without a plate at base ; not umbilicated. 

 S. (Scalaria) expansa, C. Bullet. Nat. Inst. No. 2, 194, 2, 3. 

 S. (Scalaria) pachypleura, C. Journ. A. N. S. viii. 186. 



S. cornit/era? H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. pi. 36, f. 06. 



F YRAMIDELLW.E. 

 TEREBRA, Brug. 

 Subgenus Acos, Humph. 

 T. (Cerithium) Carolinensis, C. Sill. Journ. xli. 345. 



T. (Cerith.) clavulus, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. PhiL Soc. ix. pi. 37, f. 89. 

 T. curvilirata, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 327. 

 T. indenta, C. 



T. [Cerith.) dislocata, C. (not Say,) Sill. Journ. xli. 343. 

 T. neglecta, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 258. 

 T. simplex, C. Journ. A. N. S. vii. 226, 9, 22. 

 T. sublirata, C. n. s. 



T. unilineata, C. Sill. Journ. xli. 345,2,4. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. 

 S. C. 258, 129. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 258, 129. 



OBELISCUS, Humph. 



0. (Pyramidella) arenosa, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 309. Emmons, Geol. X. C. 

 268, 154. 

 P. suturalis, H. C. Lea, Philos. Trans, ix. pi. 36, f. 63, (young shell.) 

 0. (Pyram.) reticulata, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 268, 155. 



1862.] 




566 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ODOSTOMIA, Fleming. 

 0? (Actaeon) glans, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. pi. 36, f. 58. 

 0? (Cerithiiim) curtum, H. C. Lea, ib. 268, 17, 90. 

 0. (Oerithium) dedsllum, H. C. Lea, ib. 269, 37, 91. 

 0. (Pasithea) granulata, H. C. Lea, 268, 36, 54. 

 ? (Pasithea) laevigata, H. C. Lea, ib. 35, 47. 

 0? (Actseon) nitens, H. C. Lea, ib. 36, 60. 

 0. (Pasithea) ovuliim, H. 0. Lea, 269, 35, 48, (young shell.) 

 0. (Acfwon) turbinata, H. C. Lea, ib. 36,56. 

 0? (Pasithea) turbinopsis, H. C.Lea, ib. 253, 35, 50. 

 !' (Actason) sculpta, H. C. Lea, ib. 36,59. 



TURBONILLA, Uisso. 

 T. (Turritella) perlaqueata, C. Journ. A. N. S. vii. 189. 

 T. (Chemnitzia) reticulata, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 269, 1563. 



AURICULINA, Gray. 

 A. (Pasithea) eburnea, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 251, 35, 46. 

 A. (Pasithea) exarata, H. C. Lea, ib. 35, 44. 

 A. (Odostomea) limnsea, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 20. 

 A. (Pasithea) ornata, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 253. 

 A. (Pasithea) subula, H. C. Lea, Philos. Soc. ix. 251, 35, 45. 



EULIMID^. 

 NISO, Risso. 

 N. (Bonellia) lineata, C. Journ. A. N. S. viii. 188. 



Actxon simplex, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. pi. 36, f. 62. 



EULIMA, Risso. 

 E. eborea, C. Proceed. A. N. S. iii. 26, f. 21. 



Pasithea laevigata, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 252, 35, 47. 

 Emmons, Geol. N. C. 268, 157. 

 E. migrans, C. Proceed. A. N. S. iii. 26, f. 22. 

 E. suhulata, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 268, 158. 



CEEITIIIOPSIDJE. 

 CERITHIOPSIS. 

 C. (Cerithium) annulatum, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 269, 161. 

 C. (Cerithium) clavulus, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 268,37,89. 

 r. (Chemnitzia) Emmonsii, C. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 268, 160. 



SOLARWJE. 

 ARCHITECTONICA, Bolten. 

 Subgenus Phillipia, Gray. 

 A. (Solarium) trilineata, C. Journ. A. N. S. viii. 31. 

 A. (Solarium) nupera, C. Journ. A. N. S. vii. 141. 

 A. perspectiva? Lin., Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 120, 26, 6. 



CONIDJE. 



CONUS, Lin. 



C. adversarius, C. Sill. Journ. xli. 345, 2. 3. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. 



S. C. 131, 27, 14. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 263, 142. 

 C. diluvianus, Green, Trans. Albany Institute (1830), L 124, 3, 2. 

 r. Marylandicus, Green, Trans. Albany Institute (1830), 124, 



CELATOCONUS, Conrad. 



('. (Buc.) protractuB, C. Proceed. A. N. S. L 308. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 567 



CYPRJEID.^. 



CYPR^A, Lin. 



Subgenus Aricia, Gray. 



U. Carolinensis, C. Sill, Journ. xli. 346, 2, 6. Tuomey and Holmes, Pliocene 



Foss. S. C. 126, 27, 1. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 260, 131. 

 C. annulifera, C. n. s. 

 C. pediculus ? Emmons, Geol. X. C. 260. 



CANCELLARID^. 



CAXCELLARIA, Lam. 



C. alternata, C. Journ. A. X. S. vii. 155. 

 C. Carolinensis, C. 



C. recliculaia, Emmons (not Lam.), Geol. X. 0. 255, 119. 

 0. depressa, Tuomey and Holmes, Pliocene Foss. S. 0. 142, 28, 16. 

 C. venusta, Tuomey and Holmes. Pliocene Foss. S. -C. 144, 28, 18. 

 C. engonata, C. Journ. A. X. S. viii. 188. 

 C. lunata, Journ. A. X. S. vi. 222, 9, 4. 

 C. perspectiva, C. Jcurn. A. X. S. viL 136. 

 C. plagiostoma, C. ib. rii. 136. 

 C. scalarina, C. n. s. 



Subgenus Tbigoxostoma, Blainville. 

 . F. (Cancellaria) biplicifera, C. Journ. A. X. S. viii. 187. 



CERITHIID^. 



CERITHIUil. 

 Subgenus Sichar, Hinds. 

 C. moniliferum, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. pi. 37, f. 92. Emmons. 

 Geol. X. C. 269, 159. 



TRIFORIS. 



T. (Cerith.) bicostatus, Emmons, Geol. X. C. 270, 162. 



MELANIDJE. 



LITTOREXA, Ferrusac. 

 L. Carolinensis, C. 



L. irrorata, Tuomey and Holmes (not Say), Pliocene Foss. S. C. 26, 5. 

 L. lineata, Emmons, Geol. X. C. 271, 170. 



PALUDINID^. 

 VIVIPARA, Lam. 

 V. (Turbo) glabra, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. pi. 37, f. 87. 

 V. subfjlobosa, Emmons, Geol. X. C. 273, 186. 



Tl'RRITELLIDJE. 



TURRITELLA, Lam, 

 T. sequistriata, C. Proceed., 1862, 584. 

 T. alticostata, C. Journ. A. X. S. vii. 144. 



T. (Terebellum) Burdenii, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 122, 26, 11. 

 T. (Terebellum) constrictum, Emmons. Geol. X. C. 270. 

 T. Cumberlandia, C. Proceed. A. X. S. 1862, 584. 

 T. exaltata, C. ib. 1, 32. Tuomey and Holmes, 121, 26, 8. 

 T. fluxionalis, Rogers, Trans. Philos. Soc. tI. 371. 



1862.] 




568 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



T. (Terebellum) striatum, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 120, 26, 1. 



T. indenta, C. Journ. Proceed. A. N. S. viii. 188. 



T. octonaria, C. ib. vii. 144. 



T. plebeia, Say, ib. iv. 125 ; yii. 125, 7, 1. 



T. quadristriata, Rogers, Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc. v. 331 ; and vi. 377, 24, 2. 



T. secta, C. Proceed. A. N. S. vii. 268. 



T. terstriata, Rogers, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. v. 331 ; and vi, 377, 24, 1. 



T. terebriformis, C. n. s. 



T. variabilis, C. Journ. A. N. S. vi. 221. 



VERMETID2E. 



VERMETUS, Adans. 



V. Carolinensis, C. Proceed. A. N. S. 1862. 



V. lumbricalis, C. (not Lam.) Sillim. Journ. xxviii. 109. 

 V. (Serpula) convolutus, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. pi. 34, f. 1. 



AXGUINELLA, Conrad. 



A. Virginiana, C. Miocene Foss. 77, 44, 4. 



Vermetus Virginicus, D'Orbig. Prodrom. iii. 48. 



PETALOCONCHUS, H. C. Lea. 



P. sculpturatus, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. pi. 34, f. 3. Tuomey 

 and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 123, 26, 13. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 271, 169. 

 Serpula anguina, H. C. Lea (young shell). Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. pi. 

 34, f. 2. 



CECID^. 

 C^CUM, Gray. 

 C. annulatum, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 274, 190. 



CALYPTRID^. 

 GRUCIBULUM, Schum. 



0. (Dispotaea) constrictum, C. Bullet. Nat. Inst. 194, 1, 2. Miocene Foss. 80, 



45,4. 

 0. (Dispotaea) costatum, Say, Sillim. Journ. 11, 40. 

 ( ■. (Dispotaea) costatum. Say. Journ. A. N. S. iv. 132. C. Miocene Foss. 79, 45, 2. 



Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 107, 25, 4. 

 Calyptrxa pileolus, H. C. Lea, Transactions American Philos. Soc. ix. 24S, 



f. 35, 38. 

 ('. (Dispotaja) dumosum, C. Sillim. Journ. xli. 346, 2, 9. Miocene Foss. 80. 



Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 109, 25, 6. 

 ('. (Dispotaia) grande. Say, Journal Acad. Xat. Sci. iv. 130, 7, 6. C. Miocene 



Foss. 79. 

 ('. (Dispotsea) multilineatum, C. Sill. Journ. xli. 346, 2, 8. Miocene Foss. 80. 



Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 107, 25, 7. 

 (). (Dispotsea) ramosum, C. Journ. A. N. S. viii. 187. Miocene Foss. 79, 45, 3. 



Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 108, 25, 5. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 



275, 191. 



TROCHITA. 



T. (Infundibulum) centralis, C. Sill. Journ. xli. 348. Miocene Foss. 80, 45, 5. 

 Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 109, 25, 8. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 



276, 193. 



T. (Infundibulum) concentrica, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix.pl. 35, 

 f. 39, 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 569 



T. (Infundibulum) perarmata, C. Proceed. A. X. S. i. 31. Miocene Foss. 80, 



45, 4. 



CRYPTA, Humphreys. 

 C. convexa? Say, Journ. A. N. S. ii. 227. 

 C. (Crepidula) costata, Morton, Journ. A. N. S. vi. 115, 7, 2, 3. Tuomey and 



Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 112, 25, 11. 

 C. (Crepidula) cornucopia, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. pi. 35, 



f. 41. 

 C. (Crepidula) cymbajformis, C. Proceed. A. N. S. ii. 173. Miocene Foss. pi. 



45, f. 7. 

 C. (Crepidula) densata, C Proceed. A. N. S. i. 311. Miocene Foss. pi. 45, f. 9. 

 C. (Crepidula) fornicata ? Say, Journ. A. N. S. ii. 225. C. Miocene Foss. pi. 



45, f. 10. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 110, 25, 9. Emmons, 



Geol. N. G. 276, 194. 

 C. (Crepidula) glauca? Say, Journ. A. N. S. ii. 226. 



C. (Crepidula) lamina, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. pi. 35, f. 42. 

 C. (Crepidula) plana? Say, Journ. A.N. S. ii. 226. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. 



Foss. S. C. iii. 25, 12. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 276. 

 C. (Crepidula) ponderosa, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 249, 35, 40. 

 C. (Crepidula) spinosa, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i, 307. Miocene Foss. pi. 45, f. 8. 



COCHLOLEPAS, Klein. 

 C. (Hipponyx) Bullii, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 112, 25, 13. 



TUEBimD.E. 

 MONILIA, Swains. 

 M. (Monodonta) exoluta, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 309. 



Subgenus Leiotrochds, Conrad. 

 Polished, entire, without umbilicus ; base of columella v.ith two denticles. 

 M. distans, C. Proceed. A. N. S. 1862, 288. 

 M. (Trochus) eborea, Wagner, Journ, A. N. S. viii, 52, 1, 5. 

 M? (Turbo) caperatus, C. Journ. A. N. S. vii. 140. 

 M, (Monodonta) Kiawahensis, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 116, 26, 1. 



ZIZYPHINUS, Gray. 



Z. (Trochus) aratus, H. C. Lea, Philos. Trans, ix. pi. 37, fig. 85. 



Z. (Trochus) armillatus, Tuomey and Holmes, Pliocene Foss. S. C. 118, 26, 3. 



Z. (Trochus) armillas, H. C. Lea, Philos. Trans, ix. pi. 37, f. 81. 



Z. (Trochus) bellus, 0. Journ. A. N. S. vii. 137. 



Z. (Trochus) conus, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. pi. 37, f. 82. 



Z. (Trochus) gemma, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 118, 26, 4. 



Z. (Trochus) humilis, C. Journ. A. N. S. Ti. 219, 9, 5. 



Z. (Trochus) labrosus, C. ib. vii. 138. 



Z. (Trochus) lens, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. pi. 37, f. 83. 



Z. (Trochus) Mitchelli, C. Journ. A. N. S. vii. 137. 



Z. (Trochus) peralveatus, C. Journ. A. N. S. viii. 187. Proceed. A. X. S. iii. 



21, 1, 25. 

 Z. (Trochus) philanthropus, C. ib. 137. Tuomey and Holmes, Geol. S. C. 117, 



26, 2. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 272, 167. 

 Z. (Trochus) Ruffinii, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. pi. 37, 86. 

 Z. (Trochus) reclusus, C. Journ. A. N. S. vi. 219, 9, 6. 

 Z. (Trochus) torquatus, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. pi. 37, f. 84, 

 Z. (Trochus) arenosus, C. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 272, 168. 



CEMOmA, Leach. 

 C. obloDga, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 247, 35. 37. 

 1862.] 




570 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



PATELLA. 

 PV acinaces, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 247, 35, 36. 



CHITON. 

 C. transenna, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 246, 35, 35. 



VMBONIIDjE. 

 UMBONIUM, Link. ROTELLA, Lam. 

 U? (Rotella) subconica, H. C, Lea, Trans, ix. 263, 36, 77. 

 carinata, ib. 78. 

 lenticularis. ib. 79, 

 umbilicata, ib. 80. 



CARINORBIS, Conrad. 



C. (Delphinula) arenosus, C. Proceed. A. N. S. iii. 20. 



C. (Delphinula) costulatus, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 260, 36, 69. 

 C. distans, C. Proceed. A. N. S. 1862, 288. 



C. (Delphinula) lyra, C. Journ. A. N. S. vii. 141. Proceed, iii. 20, 1, 27. 

 Deljy. globulus, H. C. Lea. Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 262, 36, 74, 

 C ? , Emmons, Geol. N. C. 258, 181. 



C. (Delphinula) quadricostata, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 269, 180. 



FISSVRELLIDyE. 

 FISSURELLA, Lam. 

 F. alticosta, C. .Journ. A. N. S. vii, 142. 



F. catilliformis, Eojrers, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. v. 332 ; and vi. 377, 26, 1. 

 F. Griscomi, 0. Miocene Foss. 78, 44, 8. 



F. Marylandica, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 31. Miocene Foss. 79, 45, 1. 

 F. nassula, C. Miocene Foss. 78, 44, 6. 



F. redimicula. Say, Journ. A. N. S. iv. 8, 1. Miocene Foss. 78. Tuomey 

 and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. 113, 25, 14. 



DENTALID.E. 



DENTALIUM. 



D. attenuatum, Say, Journ. A.N. S. iv. 154,8,3. Tuomey and Holmes, Pliocene 



Foss. S. C. 105, 25, 1. 

 D. Carolinense, C. Proceed, A. N. S. 1862. 

 D. duodecenaria, C. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 274, 188. 

 D. thallus, C. Journ. A. N. S. vii. 142. Tuomey and Holmes, Pliocene Foss. 106. 



25,3. Emmons, GeoL N. C. 274, 188. 

 D. pliocenum, Tuomey and Holmes, Pliocene Foss. 105, 25, 2. 



TORNATELLID.E, 

 ACT/EON, Montf. 

 A. angulatus, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. pi. 37, f. 57. 

 A. glans, H. C. Lea, ib. 58. 

 A. globosus, H. C. Lea, ib. pi. 37, f. 55. 

 A. melanoides, C. Journ. A. N. S. vi. 227. 

 A. novellus, C. ib. vii. 142. 

 A. ovoides, C. ib. 226. 



A. sculptus, II. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. pi. 37, f. 59. 

 A. ? turbinatuE, H. C. Lea, ib. f. 56. 



CTLICHNIDJE. 

 VOLVULA, Adams. 

 V. (Ovula) iota, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 309. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 571 



BULLIDJE. 

 BULLA. 

 B. cvlindrus, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. pL 35, f. 43. 

 B. subspissa, C. Proceed. A. N. S. iii. 20. 



TORNATINA, H. and A. Adams. 

 T. cylindiica, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 272, 182. 



A URICULID^^. 

 MELAMPUS, Montf. 

 Subgenus Essiphorus, Conrad. 

 M. longidens, C. Proceed. A. N. S. 1862, 584. 



CONCHIFERA. 



PHOLADIDJE. 



PHOLAS, Lin. 

 P. arcuata, C. Proceed. Nat. Inst. 187 (1841). P. acuminata, C. Miocene Foss. 77, 



44, 2. P. costaia, Tuomey and Holmes, (not Lam.,) Plioc. Foss. S. C. 



102, 24, 4. 

 P. producta, C. P. oblongata, Tuomey and Holmes, (not Say,) Flioc. Foss. S. 



C. 103, 24, 5. 

 P? rhomboidea, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Piiilos. Soc. ix. 235, 34, 7. 



TEREDO. 

 T. calamus, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 234, 34, 4. 

 T. fistula, ib. 5. 



GASTROCH^XA, Lam. 

 G. ligula, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 234, 34, 6. 



SOLENID^. 



ENSIS, Shum. 

 E. (Solen) ensiformis, C. Proceed. A. N. S, i. 326. 

 E. (Solen) directus, C. ib. 325. 



.S'. ensi.s, Tuomey and Holmes, (not Lin.,) Plioc. Foss. 101, 24, 3. 

 E. (Solen) magnodentatus, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 236, 34, 3. 



SILIQUARIA, Schum. 

 S. equalis, C. Solecurtus subteres. Emmons, (not Con.,) Geol. N. C. 299, 22Sa. 

 S. Carolinensis, C. Cultellus Caribceus, C. (not Lam.,) Miocene Foss. 75, 43, 1. 



Solecurtus Caribceus, Tuomey and Holmes, (not Lam.,) Plioc. Foss. S. C. 



99, 23, 12, 13. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 299, 228a. 



SAXICA riD.E. 

 SAXICAVA, Fleurian de Bellevue. 

 S. bilineata, C. Miocene Foss. 18, 10, 4. 



S. (Hidella) lancea, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 242, 24. 

 S. pectorosa, C. Sillim. Journ. xxiii. 130. Miocene Foss. 18, 10, 3. 

 S. rugosa? Lam., Bullet. Nat. Inst. 187. 



GLYCIMERIS, Klein. 

 G. (Panop.) Americana, C. Miocene Foss. 4, 2. 



G. (Panop.) dubia, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 23G, 34, 9. 

 G. (Panop.) Goldfussii, Wagner, Journ. A. N. S, viii. 52, 8, 3. 



1862.1 




572 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



G. {Panop.) porrecta? C. 

 G. (Panop.) porrecta, 0. Miocene Foss. 71, 41, 2, 1842. 

 G. (Panop.) reflexa. Say, Journ. A. N. S. iv. 153, 13, 4. Miocene Foss. 5, 3, 4. 



Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 100, 24, 1. Emmons, Geol. N. 



C. 300, 229. 



PARAMYA, Conrad. 

 P. (Myalina) subovata, C. Miocene Foss. 65, 36, 4. 



MYIDjE. 



MYA, Lin. 

 M. corpulenta, C. Miocene Foss. 68, 39, 1. 

 M. producta, C. lb. 1, 1, 1. 

 M. reflexa, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 234, 34, 10. 



CORBULIDJE. 



CORBULA, Brug. 



C. cuneata, Say, Journ. A. N. S. iv. 152, 13, 3. C. Miocene Foss. 5, 3, 2. 



Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 75, 20, 11. 

 0. elevata, C. Miocene Foss. 7, 4, 3. 



C. idonea, C. Sillim. Journ. xxiii. 341. Miocene Foss. 6, 10, 6. 

 C. inaeqalis, Say, Journ. A. N. S. iv. 3, 2. C. ib. 6, 3, 3. Tuomey and Holmes, 

 Plioc. Foss. S. C. 76, 20, 12, 



ANATINIDuE. 

 PERIPLOMA, Schum. 

 P. (Anatina) antiqua, C. Journ. A. N. S. vii. 130. Miocene Foss. 16, 8, 3. 

 P. alta, C. Proceed. 1862,585. 



THRACL4.. 



T? transversa, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 237, 34, 11. 



PHOLADOxMYA, Sowerby. 

 Subgenus Margaritaria, Conrad. 

 P. abrupta, C. Foss. Shells of Tert. Form. 26, 12. Miocene Foss. 3, 1, 4. Tuo- 

 mey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 101, 22, 2. Emmons, Geol. X. C. 

 300, 231. 



PANDORA, Soland. 

 P. crassidens, C. Miocene Foss. 2, 1. 2. 



PANDORELLA, Conrad. 

 Elongated ; a triangular fosset under the beak ; no cardinal teeth. 

 P. (Pandora) arenosa, C. Journ. A. N. S. vi. 131. 



MACTRID^i:. 

 MACTRA, Lin. SCISSODESMA, Gray. 



M. (Mactra) delumbis, C. Foss. Shells of Tert. Form. 26, 11. Miocene Foss. 27, 



- 15, 1. 

 M. ponderosa, C. Journ. A. N. S. vi. 228, 10, 5. Miocene Foss. 25, 11, 1. 



M. suhponderosa, D'Orbig. Pi'odrom. iii. 100. 



HEMIMACTRA, Swains. SPIZULA, Gray. 

 H. (Mactra) congesta, C. Sill. Journ. xxiii. 340. C. Miocene Foss. 27. 15, 2. 



Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. 98, 23, 10. Emmons, Geol. K. C. 298. 

 H. (Mactra) modicella, C. Sill. Journ. xxiii. 340. Miocene Shells, 25, 13, 3. 

 H. (Mactra) medialis, C. n. s. 



H. (Mactra) similis? Say, Journ. A. N. S. ii. 309. Emmons, Geol. X. C. 298. 

 Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 97, 23, 8. 



[Pec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 573 



MULINIA, Gray. 

 M. (Mactra) crassidens, C. Sill. Journ. xli. 346, 2, 11. C. Mioc. Fos3. G9, 39, 5. 

 M. (Mactra) triquetra, C. Sillim. Jourc. xli. 34G, 2, 11. Miocene Fo33. 69, ?,9, ?,. 



RANGIA, Desmoulins. 

 Subgenus Perissodox, Conrad. 

 R. (Mactra) dathrodonta, C. Sillim. Journ. xxiii. 340. 



Gnathodon Grayi, Miocene Foss. 23, 13, 1. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. 



Foss. S. C. 99, 23, 2. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 298, 226or. 

 G. minor, Tuomey and Holmes, (not Conrad.) Plioc. Foss S. C. 99, 23, 2. 

 Gnathodon cuneaius, Tuomey and Holmes, Post Pliocene Foss. S. C. (pars. ) 

 R. (Gnath.) minor, C. Sill. Journ. xli. 347, 2, 14. Miocene Foss. 69, 39, 6. 



L UTRARIIN.E. 



STANDELLA, Gray. 



S. (Mactra) congesta, C. Miocene Foss. 27, 15, 2. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. 



Foss. S. C. 98, 23, 10. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 298. 

 S. (Mactra) lateralis, Say, Journ. A. N. S. ii. 309. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. 



Foss. S. C. 97, 23, 9. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 298, 227. 

 S. (Mactra) fragilis? Chemnitz. 



Mactra oblongata, Say, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 96, 23, 7. 

 Emmons, Geol. N. C. 298. 

 S. (Mactra) subparilis, Sill. Journ. xli. pi. 2, f. 12. Miocene Foss. 69, 39, 4. 



TELLINID.^. 

 PSAMMOCOLA, Blain. 

 P? lucinoides, H. C. tea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 234, 34, 16. 

 P? pleiocena, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 91, 22, 8. 



TELLIXA, Lin. 



Subgenus Angulus, Miihl. 



T. polita ? Say. Journ. A. N. S. ii. 276, 65, 2. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Fo's. 



S. C. 91, 22, 6. 

 T. decliyis. Say, Journ. A. N. S. yii. 131. C. Miocene Foss. 35, 19, 1, 



Subgenus Peron.^derma, Morch. 



T. alternata? Say, Journ. A. X. S. ii. 275. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Fo's. 



S. C. 91, 22, 6. 

 T. arctata, C. Miocene Foss. 72, 41, 5. 

 T. egena, C. ib. 35, 19,4. 

 T. producta, C. ib. 36, 19, 5. 

 T. lenis, G. Miocene Foss. 72, 41, 9. 

 T. lusoria? Say, Journ. A. N. S. v. 316. C. Miocene Foss. 35, 19, 3. Tuomey 



and Holimes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 89, 22, 5. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 297, 225a. 



METIS, H. and A. Adams. 

 M. (Tellina) biplicata, Miocene Shells, 36, 19, 4. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. 

 Foss. S. C. 88, 22, 3. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 296, 225. 



STRIGILLA, Turton. 

 S. Carolinensis, C. 



Tellina fluxuosa, Tuomey and Holmes, (not Say,) Plioc. Foss. S. C. 90. 22, 7. 



DON-ACmyE. 

 DON AX, Lin. 

 D. variabilis? Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 95, 23, 6. 

 1862.] 




574 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



D? , Emmons, Geol. N. C. 298, 22G. 



SCR OBICULARIINJE. 



ABRA, Leach. 



A. (Amphidesma) carinata, C. Journ. A. N. S. vi. 229, 9, 23. Mioceae Foss. 



37, 19, 7. Tuomey aad Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 93, 23, 2. 

 A. (Amphidesma) equalis. Say, Amer. Coach, pi. 28. C. Miocene Foss. 76, 43, 



9. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 93, 23, 3. 

 A. (Amphidesma) aequata, C. Miocene Foss. 65, 36, 5. Tuomey and Holmes, 



Plioc. Foss. S. C. 95, 23, 5. 

 A. (Amphidesma) protexta, C. Sillim. Journ. xli. 347. C. Miocene Foss. 73, 41, 7. 

 A. (Amphidesma) subreflexa, C. Journ. A. N. S. vii. 133. Miocene Foss. 37, 



19, 6. 

 A. (Amphidesma) subovata, Say, Journ. A. N. S. iv. 152, 10, 6. C. Miocene 



Foss. 36. 

 A. (Amphidesma) nuculoides, C. Sill. xli. 347. Miocene Foss. 73, 41, 6. 



PArmiNJE. 



MBSODESMA, Desh. 

 M. (Mactra) confraga, C. Sillim. Journ. xxiii. 340. Miocene Foss. 20, 14, 2. 

 M. (Mactra) incrassata, C. Miocene Foss. 24, 13, 2. 



SEMELE, Schum. AMPHIDESMA, Lam. 



S. (Amphidesma) orbiculata? Say, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 94, 

 23,4. 



FABELLA, Conrad. 



F. (Amphidesma) constricta, C. Sillim. Journ. xli. 347.* C. Miocene Foss. 76, 

 43, 10. Proceed. A. N. S. 1802, 586. 



CUMINGIA, Sowerby. 



C. (Mactra) tellinoides, C. Journ. A. N. S. vi. 258, 11, 2-3. 



Anatina tellinoides, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 237, 34, 12. 

 Lavignon tellinoides, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 92, 23, 1. 



VEXERID^E. 

 MERCENARIA, Schum. 

 M. (Venus) canccllata, Gabb, Journ. A. N. S. iv. 37G, 67, 25, (1860 ) 

 M. (Venus) capax, C. Miocene Foss. 68, 39, 4. 

 M. mercenaria? Lin. C. Sillim. Journ. xli. 344. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. 



Foss. S. C. 81, 21, 6. 

 M. (Venus) permagna, C. Foss. of Tert. Form. 9. Proceed. A. K. S. i. 324. 



Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 80, 22, 2. 

 M. (Venus) Rileyi, C. Miocene Foss. 9, 6, 1. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. 



S. C. 78, 21, 8. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 292. 

 M. (Venus) submortoni, D'Orbigny, Prodrom. iii. 108. 



M. (Fmws) Mortoni, C. Journ. A. N. S. vii. 251. Miocene Foss. 8, 5, 1. 

 M. (Venus) tetrica, C. Miocene Foss. 7, 4, 1. 



M. (Cyprina) tridacnoides, Lam. An. sans Vert. v. 565. C. Miocene Foss. 10, 

 7, 2. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 85, 22, 1. Emmons, Geol. 

 N. C. 292. 

 V. deformis, Say, Journ. A. N. S. iv, 148, 12, 2. 



VEXUS, Lin. 



V? ascia, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 242, 34, 23. 

 V. Ducatellii, C. Miocene Foss. 8, 4,2. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA. 575 



CIRCUMPHALUS, Klein. 

 Subgenus Lirophoba, Conrad. 

 C. (Venus) athleta, C. Proceed. 1S62, 586. 

 V. papkia, Lam. (not Lin.) 



V. alveata, Say, (not Conrad,) Amer. Couch, pi. 63. 



V. latilirata, Tuomev and Holmes, (not Conrad,) Plioc. Foss. S. C. 85, 21, 

 12. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 293, 219. 

 C. (Venus) alveatus, C. Miocene Foss. 9, 5, 2. 



C. (Venus) latiliratus, ib. 68, 38, 3, 



DIONE, Gray. 



D. (Cytherea) albaria. Say, American Conch, pi. 59. Miocene Foss. 13, 8, 2. 

 D. Marylandica, C. 



D. (Cytherea) Carolinensis, C. Sillim. Journ. xli. 343. 



D. densata, Proceed. A. N. S. 1862, 586. 



D. (Cytherea) elevata, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 241, 34, 21. 



D. idonea, C. albaria, C. (not Say,) Miocene Foss. pi. 8, f. 2. 



D. (Cytherea) Marylandica, C. Sillim. Journ. xxiii. 343. Miocene Foss. 15,9, 1. 



D. (Cytherea) obovata, C. Journ. A. N. S. vi. 132. Miocene Foss. 14, 8, 4. 



D. (Cytherea) reposta, C. Journ. A. N. S. vii. 132. Miocene Foss. 15, 9, 2. 



Emmons, 5, 2. 

 D. (Cytherea) Sayana, C. Miocene Foss. 13, 7, 3. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. 



Foss. S. C. 83, 21, 9. Emmons, GeoL N. C. 294, 1. 



C. convexa, C. (not Say,) Miocene Foss. 13, 7, 3. 



D. (Cythereaj spherica, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 241, 34, 22. 

 D. (Cytherea) staminea, C. Miocene Foss. pi. 21, f. 1. 



D. (Cytherea) subnasuta, C. Miocene Foss. 72, 41, 3. Taomey and Holme* 

 Plioc. Foss. S. C. 80, 21, 3. "' 



D. Virginiana, C. Proceed. A. N. S. 1862, 586. 



Subgenus Chamelea, Klein. 



C. (V.) cancellata? Lin. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 84, 21, 11. 



C. (Venus) cribraria, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 310. Miocene Foss. 67, 38, 2. Tuo- 

 mey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 83, 21, 10. 



C. (Venus) cortinaria. Rogers, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. v. 333. C. Miocene 

 Foss. 11, 8, 1. ' 



GEMMA. 



G. (Venus) sphserica, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soo. ix. 241, 34, 22. 



CIRCE. 



C. (Cyth.) raetastriata, C. Miocene Foss. 14, 8, 5. Tuomey and Plolmes, Plio<'. 



Foss. S. C. 79, 21, 1-2. Emmons, 293, 220. 



DOSIXIA, Scopoli. 



D. (Art.) acetabulum, C. Tert. Foss. 20, 61. Miocene Foss. 29, 16, 1. 

 D. (Art.) elegans, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 325. Miocene Foss. 67, 38, 1. 



D. tramversus, Emmons, Geol. N. C. 295, 223-4. 

 D. intermedia, C. 



Venus concentrica, Tuomev and Holmes, (not Born,) Piioc. Foss. S. C 8" 

 21,7. 



CLEMENTIA, Gray. 



C. (Venus) inoceriformis, "Wagner, viii. 1, 2, C. Miocene Foss. 70, 40, 1. 

 Clemcntia inoceriformis, C. Index to Miocene Foss. 



18G2.] 




576 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



PETRICOLIDJE. 



PETRICOLA, Lam. 



P. compressa, H. C. Lea, Journ. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 239, 34, 15. 

 P. Carolinensis, C. 



P. ^jAoZac?{/brOTZ5, Tnomey and Holmes (not Lam.), Plioc. Foss. S. C. 87, 21, 5, 



PLIORYTIS, Conrad. 



P. (Petricola) centenaria, C. Sill, xxiii. 341. Mioc. 17, 10, 1. 



Psammocola regia^ H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 234, 34, 17. 

 P. Pliocena, Tuomey and Holmes, Pliocene Foss. S. C. 91, 22, 8. 

 Capsa centenaria, D'Orbig. Prodrom. iii. 103. 



CYRENID.E. 

 CORBICULA, Megerle. 

 C. (Cyrena) densata, C. Mioc. Foss. 68, 39, 2. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. 

 Foss. S. C\ 77, 20, 14. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 290, 215a. 



CARDIIDM. 

 CARDIUM, Lin. 



Subgenus Cerastoderma, Poll. 

 (J. acutilaqueatum, C. Miocene Foss. 34, 18, 2. 

 C Carolinensis, C. 



C. magnum, Tuomey and Holmes (not Born), Plioc. Foss. S. C. 63, 19, 1. 

 Emmons, Geol. N. C. 301. 

 C. craticuloides, C. Miocene Foss. 66, 37, 3. 

 C. laqueatum, C Miocene Foss. 31, 17, 1. 

 C. leptopleura, C. Miocene Foss. QQ, 37, 5. 

 C. Virginianum, C. Miocene Foss. 33, 18, 1. April, 1839. 



C. quadrans, Rogers, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. v. 375, 30, 1. Dec, 1839. 



Subgenus L^vicardium, Swains. 

 C. sublineatum, C. Sillim. Journ. xli. 347, 2, 13. Miocene Foss. 66, 37, 4. 



Subgenus Trachtcardium, Morch. 

 (J. muricatum? Lin., Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 64, 19, 2. Emmons, 

 Geol. N. C. 301, 232-3. 



BUCARBIIB^. 

 BUCARDIA, Lister. 

 B. (Isocardia) fraterna. Say, (/. rusiica, Con.) Miocene Foss. 20, 11, 1. 



/. Conradi, D'Orbig. Prodromus, iii. 121. 

 B. (Isocardia) Markoei, C. Bullet. Nat. Inst. 193, 2, 1, 



CHAMIDJS. 



CHAMA, Lin. 



0. congregata, C. Sillim. Journ. xxiii. 341. Miocene Foss. 32, 17, 2. Tuomev 



and Holmes, 23, 7, 7—10. 

 (1 corticosa, C. ib. 17, 3. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. 22, 7, 1, 2, 3. 



Emmons, 286, 210. 

 0. striata, Emmons, Geol. X. C. 286. 



ARCINELLA, Schuni. 

 A. (Chama) arcinella, Lin., Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 22, 7, 4 — 6. 

 Emmons, Geol. N. C. 286, 210. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 577 



LUCINIDJE. 

 LUCINA, Brug. 

 L. Americana, De France, Diet, des Sciences Nat. Art. Lucina, 1823. 



L. anodonta, Say, Journ. A. N. S. iv. 146, 10, 9, 1824. C. Miocene Foss. 

 39,20,4. Tuomey and Holmes, Pliocene Foss. S. C. 55, 18, 2. Emmons, 

 Geol. N. C. 291. 

 L. contracta, Say, Journ. A. X. S. iv. 145, 10, 8. C. Miocene Foss. 39, 20, 5. 



Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 54, 18, 1. 

 L. crenulata, C. Miocene Foss. 39, 20, 2. 

 L. Foremani, C. Journ. A. N. S. viii. 184. Miocene Foss. 71, 40, 4. Emmons, 



Geol. N. C. 291, 217. 

 L. Leana, D'Orbig. Prodrom. iii. 117. 



Lucina lens, H. C. Lea, Trans. A. P. S. ix. 240, 34, 19. 

 L. subobliqua, Say, Journ. A. N. S. iv. 147. 

 L. subplanata, C. Journ. A. N. S. viii. 184. 



L. trisulcata, (J. Sillim. Journ. xli. 346. Miocene Foss. 74, 40, 5. 

 L. ur.dula, C. Miocene Foss. 71, 41, 1. 



Subgenus Codakia, Scopoli. 

 (J. (Lucina) cribraria. Say, Journ. A. N. S. iv. 147, 13, 1. Emmons, GeoL N. 



C. 293, 218. 

 C. (Lueina) raultistriata, C. Miocene Foss. 71, 40, 6. Tuomey and Holmes, 



Plioc. Foss. S. C. 61, 18, 16, 17. 

 C. (Lucina) speciosa, Rogers, Trans. A. P. S. n. s. v. 333, 26, G. 

 L. squamosa, Conrad, (not Lam.,) Miocene Foss. 38, 20, 1. 



Subgenus Cyclas, Klein. 

 Lucina Conradii, D'Orbig. Prodrom. iii. 117, 2194. 



L. divaricata, var.. Say, Journ. A. N. S. iv. 148. C. Miocene Foss. 39, 

 20, 3. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 59, 18, 10, 11. 



UNGULINID.E. 

 MYSIA, Leach. 

 M. acclinis, C. Foss. Shells of Tert. Form. 21, 6, 2. 

 Mysia Ameiicana, C. Miocene Foss. 30, 16, 2. 



Lucina Americana, Conrad (not DeFrance), D'Orbig. Prodrom. iii. 117, 2191. 

 M. elevata, C. Miocene Foss. 73, 41, 8. 



SPH^RELLA, Conrad. 

 S. subvexa, C. Miocene Foss. 18, 10, 2. 



Erycina subconvexa, D'Orbig. Prodrom. iii. 115, 2152. 



KELLIA, Turton. 

 K. (Aligena) laevis, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 238, 34, 13, 1. 



Erycina sublsevis, D'Orbig. Prodrom. iii. 115, 2153. 

 K. striara, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 238, 34, 14. 



LEPTONin.E. 

 LEPTON, Turton. 

 ]j. mactroides, C. Journ. A. N. S. vii. 151. Miocene Foss. 19, 10, 5. 

 Erycina maclroides, D'Orbig. Prodrom. iii. 115, 2153. 



CRASS A TELLIDJE. 



ASTARTE, Sowerby. 

 A. arata, C. Miocene Foss. 42, 20, 8. 

 A. bella, C. Proceed. A. N. S. 1862,585. 



1862.] 40 




578 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



A. co7icentrica, Tuomey and Holmes (not Conrad), Plioc. Foss. S. C. 71. 



20, 3. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 289, 212. 



A. concentrica, C. Journ. A. N. S. vii. 123. Miocene Foss. 44, 21, 6. 



A. cuneiformis, C. Miocene Foss. 42, 20, 9. 



A. Coheni, C. Miocene Foss. 43, 21, 5. 



A. distans, C. Proceed. A. N. S. June, 1862, 288. 



A. exaltata, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 29. Miocene Foss. 66, 37, 6. 



A. lineolata, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Pliilos. Soc. ix. 241, 34, 20. 



A. obruta, C. Journ. A. N. S. vii. 15. Miocene Foss. 43, 21, 2. 



A. perplana, C. Miocene Foss. 43, 21, 3. 



A. planulata, C. Bullet. Nat. Inst. 187. 



A. symmetrica, C. Miocene Foss. 44, 21, 7. 



A. Thomasii, G. Proceed. A. N. S. vii. 267. 



A. undulata, Say, Journ. A. N. S. iv. 150, 9, 5. C. Miocene Foss. 41, 20, 7 and 



21, 4. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 70, 20, 1, 2. Emnions, 

 Geol. N. C. 289, 213. 



A. vicina, Say, Journ. A. N. S. iv. 151, 9, 6. C. Miocene Foss. 41. 

 A. varians, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 29. Miocene Foss. 67, 37, 7. 

 A. Virginica, Proceed. A. N. S. 1862, 585. 



EULOXA, Conrad. 



E, (Venus) lati.sulcata, C. Miocene Foss. 40, 20, 6. 



Astarte latisiilcata, D'Orb. Prodrora. iii. 112, 2089. 



GOULDIA, C, B. Adams. 



G. (Astarte) lunulata, C. Miocene Foss. 44, 21, 8. 



A. lunulaCa, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 72, 20, 4. 



ERYCINELLA, Con. 

 E. ovalis, C. Miocene Foss. 74, 42, 5. 



Erycina ovalis, D'Orbig. Prodrom. iii. 115. 



CRA&SATELLA, Lam. 

 C. curta, C. n. s. 



C. Marylandica, C. Miocene Foss. 21, 12, 1. 

 C. melina, C. Miocene Foss. 22, 12, 2. 

 C. turgidula, C. Miocene Foss. 69, 39, 7. 

 C. undulata. Say, Journ. A. N. S. iv. 142, 11, 2. C. Miocene Foss. 21, 11, 2. 



CARDITIDjE. 



ACTINOBOLUS, Klein. 



A. (Cardita) carinata, Emmons. Geol. N. C. 302. 



A. (Cardita) granulaia. Say, Journ. A. N. S. iv. 142, 11, 1. C. Sillim. Journ. 



xxviii. 110. Mioc. Foss. 12, 7, 1. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. 3. C. 



66, 19, 6, 7. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 302, 236a. 

 A. (Cardita) tridentata. Say, Journ. A. N. S. v. 216. C. Miocene Foss. 76, 43, 



11. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 67, 19, 8, 9. Emmons, Geol. 



N. C. 302, 236a. 



Subgenus Pteromeris, Conrad. 

 P. (Cardita) abbreviate, Sillim. Journ. xli. 2, 17. Miocene Foss. 77, 43, 12. 



Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 69, 19, 12. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 



302, 235. 

 P. radians, C. Sillim. Journ. xli. 2, 16. Miocene Foss. 77, 43, 13. 



CARDITAMERA, Conrad. LAZAPvIA, Gr.iy. 

 C. aculeaia. Proceed. A. N. S. 1862, 585. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 579 



C arata, C. Miocene Foss. II, 6, 2. 



Cardita arata, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 65, 19, 4, 5. Emtnong, 

 Geol. N. C. 302, 234. 

 C. carinata, C. Proceed. A. N. S. 1, 305. Miocene Foss. 65, 37, 1. 



Cardila pseiido-carinuta, D'Orbi^. Prodrom. iii. 114, 2133. 



Cardila carinata, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss S. C. 67, 19, 10. 

 C. protracta, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 37, 2. Miocene Foss. 65, 37, 2. 



Cardita protracta, D'Orbig. Prodrom. iii. 114, 2134. 



iMYTILIDjE. 



PERNA, Adans. MODIOLA, Lam. 

 P. (Modiola) spinigera, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 244, 35, 30. 

 P. (.Modiola) Ducatellii, C. Miocene Foss. 53, 28, 2. 

 P. (.Mytilus) inflata, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 33, 14, 3. 



MYTILICOXCHA, Conrad. 



M. (Mjoconcha) incurva, C. Miocene Foss. 52, 28, 1. 



M. iacrassatus, C. Sillim. Journ. xli. 247. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Fos3. 

 S. C. 32, 14, 1, 2. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 283," 203a. 

 Mytilus Conradinus, D'Orbig. Prodrom. iii. 127. 



CRENELLA, Brown. 

 C. (Nucula) Ecquilatera, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 243, 34, 27. 



STALAGMIUM, Conrad, 1833. 

 S. . A minute species occurs at Yorktown (specimen lost). 



AVICULA. 

 A. multangula, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 245, 35, 31. 



ISOGNOMEN, Klein. PERNA, Brug. 

 L (Perna) torta, Say, Sillim. Journ. ii. 38. 



Ferna maxillata, C. (not Lam.,) Miocene Foss. 51, 27. 

 P. Conradii, D'Orbig. Prodrom. iii. 127. 



TRIGONIIDM. 

 VERTICORDIA, Wood. 

 V. Emraonsii, C. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 286, 206. 



ARCID.^. 

 SCAPHARCA, Gray. 

 S. (Area) arata, Say, Journ. A. N. S. iv. 10, 1. C. Miocene Foss. 58, 30, G. 

 S. (Area) seqnicostata, C. Miocene Foss. 60, 31, 6. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. 



Foss. S. C. 44, 16, 3, 4. 

 S. (Area) callipleura, C. Miocene Foss. 54, 29, 2. 

 S. (Area) idonea, C. Foss. Shells of Tert. Form. 15, 1, 5. .^Iiocene Foss. 55, 20, 



3. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 285. 

 S. (Area) incongrua? Say, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. 45, 16, 5, 0. 

 S (Area) improcera, C. Miocene Foss. 60, 31, 5. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. 



Foss. S. C. 41, 15,4,5. 

 S. (Area) lineolata, C. Miocene Foss. 61. 32, 3. 



A. sithUneolata, D'Orbig. Prod. iii. 125. 

 S. (Area) lienosa, Say, Amer. Conch, pi. 36. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Fo?s. 



S. C. 40, 15, 2, 3. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 284, 204. 

 S. (Area) plieatura, C. Miocene Foss. 61, 32, 4. 



1862.] 




5S0 PROCEEDINGS 0? THE ACADEMY OF 



S, (Area) rustica, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 39, 15, 1. 



8. (Area) stillicidium, C. Foss. Shells of Tert. Form. 14, 1, 3. 



8. (Area) scalaris, C. Miocene Foss. 59, 31, 1. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 324. Tuo- 

 mey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 43, 16, 1, 2. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 

 284. 



S. (Area) subsinuata, C. Miocene Foss. 62, 32, 6. 



8. (Area) subrostrata, C. Miocene Foss. 58, 30, 7. 



H. (Area) transA'ersa? Say, C. Foss. Shells of Tert. Form. 14, 1, 2. Tuomey 

 and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. 42, 15, 6, 7. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 285. 



S. (Area) triquetra, C. Miocene Foss. 59, 31, 2. 



NCETIA, Gray. 

 N. (Area) Carolinensis, C. Proceed. A. N. S. 1862, 290. 

 N. (Area) limala, C. Foss. Shells of Tert. Form. 15, 1, 1. Miocene Foss. 60, 



ARGINA, Gray. 

 A. (Area) pexata, Sav, Journ. A. X. S. ii. 2G8. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. 

 Foss. S. C. 46,'l6, 7, 8. 



ANOMOLOCARDIA, Klein. 

 A. (Area) incile, Say, Journ. A. N. S. iv. 139, 10, 8. C. Fossil Shells of Tert. 



Form. 16, 21. Miocene Foss. 56, 29, 5. Tuomey and Holmes. Plioc. Foss. 



S. C. 35, 14, 6, 7. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 284. 

 A. trigintinaria, C. Proceed. A. N. S. 1862, 289. 



A. (Area) protracta, Rog'ers, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. v. 332 ; and vi. 337, 26, 5. 



C. Miocene Foss. 58, 30, 5. 



STRIARCA, Conrad. 1862. 

 H. (Area) centenaria, Say, Journ. A. N. S. iv. 138, 10, 2. C. Foss. Shells of 

 Tert. Form. 16, 1, 4. Miocene Foss. 55, 29, 4. Tuomey and Holmes, 

 Plioc. Foss. S. C. 37, 15, 11, 12. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 284, 205. 



BARBATIA, Gray. 



B. (Area) cselata, C. Miocene Foss. 61,32, 2. Tnomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. 



S. C. 36, 14, 8. 

 B. (Area) hians, Tnomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 34, 14, 4, 5. 

 B. (Byssoarca) Marylandica, C. Miocene Foss. 54, 29, 1. 



Subgenus Granoarca, Conrad. 1862. 

 r.. (Area) propatula, C. Miocene Foss. 61, 32, 1. 



AXIN^EIN^E. 

 AXIN.^A, Poll. 



A. (Pectunculus) arata, C. Sillim. Jonrn. sli. 346. Miocene Foss. 62,3,2. Tuo- 

 mey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 50, 17, 6. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 287, 

 208. 



A. (Pect.) Carolinensis, C. Sillim. Journ. xli. 346. Miocene Foss. 63, 35, 2. 



A. (Pect.) Iffivis, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 50, 17, 5. 



A. (Pect.) lentiformis, C. Miocene Foss. 64, 36, 2. Tuomey and Homes, Plioc. 

 Foss. S. C. 48, 17, 2. Emmons, Geol. X. C. 286. 



A. (Pect.) passa, C. Miocene Foss. 64, 35, 3. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. 

 S. C. 48, 17, 3. 



A. (Pect.) parilis, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 306. ;>riocene Foss. 64, 36, 2. 



A. (Pect.) quinquerugata, C. Sillim. Journ. xli. 346. Miocene Foss. 63, 34, 3. 

 Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 49, 17, 4. 



A. (Pect.) tricenaria, C. Miocene Foss. 63, 35, 1. 



A. (Pect.) transversa, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. 51, 17, 6c. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 581 



A. (Peet.) subovata, Say, Journ. A. N. S. iv. 140. C. Foss. Shells of Tert. 



Form. 17, 2, 3. Miocene Foss. 62, 34, 1. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. 



Foss. S. C. 47, 17, 1. Emmons, Geol. X. C. 286, 207. 

 A. (Pect.) tumulus, C. Miocene Foss. 72, 41, 4. 



NUCULID.E. 



NUCULA, Lam. 



N. dolabella, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 242, 34, 25. 



N. diaphana, H. 0. Lea, ib. 2-43, 34, 26. 



X. proxima? Say, Journ. A. X. S. ii. 270. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. 



G. 53, 17, 7-8. Emmons. Geol. X. C. 287, 2085. 

 X. obliqua. Say, (not Lara.,) Sillim. Journ. ii. 40, 1820. 



XUCDLAXA, Link. 



X. (XucuIh) acuta, C. Marine Conch, pi. 6, f. 3. Miocene Foss. 57, 30, 2. Tuo- 

 mey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 53, 17, 10-12. Emmons, Geol. X. C. 

 287, 208a. 



X. (Xucula) acutidens, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 244, 34, 28. 



N. (Xucula) carinata, H. C. Lea, ib. 244, 34, 29. 



X. (Xucula) concentrica. Say, Journ. A. X. S. iv. pi. 10, f. 6. Amer. Conch. 

 pi. 12. C. Miocene Foss. 57, 30, 3. 



X. (Xucula) liciata, G. Miocene Foss. 64, 36, 3. 



YOLDIA. 

 Y. eborea, C. n. s. 

 Y. (X.) iffivis. Say, Journ. A. X. S. iv, 141, 10, 5. 



N. limalula Tuomey and Holmes, (not Say,) Plioc. Foss. S. C. 52, 17, 3. 



PECTINID^l!]. 

 PECTEX, Lin. 

 P. biformis, C. Miocene Foss. 73, 42, 1. 

 P. Clintonius, Say, Journ. A. X. S. iv. 135, 9, 2. C. Miocene Foss. 47, 23, 1. 



P. principoides, Emmons, Geol. X. C. 280, 198. 

 P. comparilis, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 29, 11, 6-10. Emmons, 



Geol. X. C. 279. 

 P. concentricus? Say, 0. 



P. decemnarius, C. Journ. A. X. S. rii. 151. C. Miocene Foss. 49, 24, 2. 

 P. Edgecomensis, C. Proceed. A. X. S. 1862,291. 

 P. dispalatus, Miocene Foss. 74, 42, 3. 

 P. eboreus, C. Sillim. Journ. xxiii. 341. Miocene Foss. 48, 23, 2, and 24, 3. 



Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 28, 11, 1. Emmons, Geol. X. C. 



279, 197. 

 P. Holbrookii, Ravenel, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 28. 

 P. fraternus. Con. Proceed. A. X. S. 1862, 291. 

 P. Jeffersonius, Say, Journ. A. X'. S. iv. 133, 9, 1. C. Miocene Foss. 46, 22, 1. 



Emmons, Geol. X. C. 281, 199, and 282, 201. 

 P. Marylaudicus, Wngner, Journ. A. X. S. viii 51, 1, 1. 



P. Madisonius, Say, Journ. A. X. S. iv. 134. C. Miocene Foss. 48, 24, 1. Em- 

 mons, Geol. X. C. 282, 200. 

 P. raicropleura, H. 0. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 245, 35, 23. 

 P. Pedeensis, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 30, 12, 1. Emmons, Geol. 



X. C. 281. 

 P. Rogersi, C. Miocene Foss. 45, 21, 9. 

 P. septenarius. Say, Journ. A. X. S. iv. 136, 9, 3. Miocene Foss. 47, 22, 2. 



Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 31, 13, 1-4. 

 P. tenuis, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 246, 35, 33. 



1862.] 




582 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



]r. tricenarius, C. Miocene Foss. 74, 42, 2. 

 P. Virginianus, C. Miocene Foss. 46, 21, 10. 

 P. viceuarius, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 306. 



VOLA, Klein. 



V? (Janira) affinis, Tuoraey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 26, 8, 56. 



V. (Janira) hemicycla, Ravenel, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 25, 8, 



1-4. 

 V. (Pecten) Humphreysii, C. Bullet. Nat. Inst. 194, 2, 2. 



AMUSIUM, Klein. 



A. (Pecten) Mortoni, Ravenel. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 27, 10, 

 1, 2. Emmons, 281. 



RADULID.E. 



RADULA, Klein. 

 R. (Lima) papyria, C. Miocene Foss. 76, 43, 7. 



SPONDILID.E. 



PLICATULA, Lam. 



P. densata, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i.311. Miocene Foss. 75, 43, G. 

 P. margicata. Say, Tourn. A. N. S. ir. 9, 4. C. Miocene Foss. 75. Tuomey and 

 Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 24, 7, 11. 

 P. rudis, H. C. Lea, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. ix. 246, 35, 34. 



ANOMIW^E. 



ANOMIA, Lin. 

 A. delumbis, C. n. s. 

 A. Conradi, D'Orbig. 



A. ephippiuvi ? var. C. Journ. A.N. S. vii. Miocene Foss. 75, 43, 4. Tuomey 



and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 18, 5, 4. Emmons, Geol. N. C 277. 

 A. Conradi, D'Orbig., Prodrom. iii. 134, 25, 30. 

 A. Ruffini, C. Proceed. A. N. S. i. 323. Miocene Foss. 74, 42, 6. 



PLACUNANOMIA, Brod. 

 P. plicata, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 19, 6, 4. 



OSTREID.F.. 



OSTREA, Linn. 



0. disp.arilis, C. Miocene Foss. 51, 24. 



0. Mauricensis, Gabb, Journ, A. N. S. iv. 67. 26, (1860.) 



0. percrassa, C. Miocene Foss. 50, 25, 1. 



0. Ravenelliana, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C. 21, 6, 1. 



0. sculpturata, C. Miocene Foss. 50, 25, 3. 



0. subfalcata, C. Miocene Foss. 50, 25, 2. 



0. Virginiana? Gmel. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. C, 20, 5, 6-9. 



ORBICULIDuE. 



ORBICULA, Sowerby. 



0. lugubris, C. Miocene Foss. 75, 43, 2. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. S. 

 C. 17, 5, 1. Emmons, Geol. N. C. 274, 187. 

 Capulus lugubris^ C. Journ. A. N. S. vii. 143. 

 0. multilineata, C. Miocene Foss. 75, 43, 3. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss. 

 S. C. 18, 5, 2. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5S3 



Sescriplioas of New, Becent and BEIOCENE SHELLS. 



BY T. A. CONRAD. 



FASCIOLARIID.'E? 



BUSYCON, Bolton. 



Recent Species. 



B. plagosum. — Dextral, pyriform, moderately thick; body whorl ventricose, 

 but not profound; angle acute, slightly salient, subtuberculated ; spire mod- 

 erately prominent ; whorls slightly concave above; angle below the middle ; 

 summits deeply channelled at the sumre ; revolving lines prominent and dis- 

 tinct, unequal, with closely-arranged intermediate microscopic lines ; beak 

 produced ; columella fold wide and deeply impressed ; labrura striated within : 

 striae prominent, acute, about 31 in number; color whitish, with purplish- 

 brown longitudinal bands, and yellowish-brown stains. Length 4|^, width '1\ 

 inches. 



LocaUiff.—N. J. ? 



Allied to B. pyrum, (_Pyrula spirata, Lam.,) but very distinct. The spire is 

 more prominent and acutely carinated, and the labrum profoundly striated 

 within, whilst in the pyrum it is entire. 



Pyrula spirata^ var. Kiener. Lister, iii. f. T37. 



B. spinosum. — Dextral, pyriform, volutions 7, angle spinous; spines numer- 

 ous, prominent ; revolving lines alternated in size ; whorls slightly concave 

 above, towards the apex more distinctly concave ; spire rather short ; angle 

 near the base of the whorls; beak moderate in length; canal wide ; color 

 whitish, with longitudinal brown bands. 



Locality. — Coasts of U. S. 



This shell has long been confoundea with B. aruana, L. (B. carica, Gmd.) 

 but it is a thinner, less ventricose species, growing to a much larger size than 

 the former, with more numerous, less elevated spines, which almost disappear 

 in old shells. 



Busycon elegans. — Pyriform ; whorls 6, with prominent revolving lines, and 

 minute closely-arranged wrinkles ; angle of body whorl prominently carinated ; 

 spire short, sides straight, oblique, sutural channel profound ; angle of the whorl 

 margins the channel and is tuberculated ; summit of labrum elevated slightly 

 above the carina of body whorl ; within ribbed; ribs about 35, acute; color 

 whitish, with numerous irregular brown bands. 



Locality. — ? 



The specimen in the Academy's cabinet, is rather less than B. plagosum, 

 and differs in having a shorter spire, in being more ventricose, proportionally 

 shorter, and having the summit of the labrum much more elevated, as well as 

 the carina on the body whorls. 



Fossil Species. 



B. Triionis. — Fusiform, moderately thick ; body whorl profoundly ventri- 

 cose ; lines of growth remote, plicated, revolving lines fine, wrinkled, closely- 

 arranged, with distant more prominent lines ; angle spinous ; spines distant, 

 prominent, foliated ; whorls 6, slightly concave above ; spire somewhat scala- 

 riform ; the spinous angle of the whorls situated considerably above the 

 suture and rounded ; summit of whorls obtusely subcarinated at the suture, 

 which is deeply impressed ; beak sinuous ; columella projecting inwardly 

 below the middle; fold obsolete. Length 7 inches, width 4^. 



Locality. — Yorktown, Va. 



B. alveatum. — Fusiform ; spire prominent, scalariform ; angle of whorls 

 1862.] 




584 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OE 



situated much above the middle, not tuberculated ; summits channelled and 

 margined with a carina, which is most conspicuous on the body whorl, and 

 beneath it is a flattened space. Length 3^ inches, width 11. 



Localiii/. — St. Mary's River, Md. 



A single specimen only was found, which appears to be a mature shell, and 

 is most nearly allied to B. canaliculalum. The spire is more elevated than in 

 that species, and differs also in being without tubercles. 



B. Carolinense, C. 



B. canaliculaium, Tuomey and Holmes (not Lam.), Pliocene Foss. S. C. 145. 

 29; 3. 



B. adversarium, C. 



B. perversum, Tuomey and Holmes (not Lam.), Pliocene Foss. S. C. 14(3, 

 29. 2. 



B. scalarwpira. — Subfusiform ; spire moderate, turrited, sides above the 

 angle oblique ; angle subcarinated, with numerous approximate subcompressed 

 tubercles : whorls striated transversely. 



Locality. — Shiluh, Cumberland, Co., N. J. 



Allied to B. rugosum, but differs in wanting the channel round the base of 

 the whorls. 



B. striatum. — Subfusiform ; spire moderate in elevation, sides of whorls 

 oblique, the angles near the suture furnished with not very prominent obtuse 

 tubercles ; beak long and straight; whorls conspicuously striated. 



Locality. — Like the preceding, this species is without a channel, and is small, 

 probably a young shell. 



TURRITELLA, Lam. 



T. sequistriala. — Subulate, volutions 14, bicarinate, carinas distant with a con- 

 cave interval, the lower carina near the suture; surface covered with nearly 

 equal fine closelj'-arranged striae, with a minute intermediate line ; aperture 

 longer than wide. 



Locality. — Shiloh, Cumberland Co., N. J. 



T. Cumberlandia. — Elongated, tapering gradually ; volutions 24, bicarinated, 

 carinae nearly equal, distant ; revolving lines unequal, wrinkled ; sides of 

 whorls concave between the carinse, somewhat channelled beneath the lower 

 one, and rounded at base. Length 2f . 



Locality. — Sbiloh, Cumberland Co., N. J. 



A uriculid.l:. 



MELAMPUS, Mont. 

 Subgenus Ensiphorus, Conrad. 



J/, longidens. — Acutely oval ; spire conical, mucronate at the top ; whorls 7 : 

 suture profound ; aperture very narrow ; labrum dentato-striate within ; base of 

 columella with an elongated, slightly curved plate, directed obliquely upwards 

 in the line of the aperture. 



Locality. — Yorktown, Va. 



The single elongated plate at base distinguishes this subgenus. 



DACTYLUS, Klein. 



D. Carolincnsis. — Cj'lindrical ; spire short, conical ; whorls concave or angu- 

 lated ; columella strongly plaited throughout; substance of shell very thick 

 at base. 



Locality. — Dauphin Co., N. C. Prof. Mitchell. 



FDec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 585 



The strongly plated columella is the principal character which distinguishes 

 this species from Oliva litierata, Lam. 



PERIPLOMA. 



P. alta. — Suborbicular, subequilateral, anterior side subrostated, end trun- 

 cated, direct; basal margin profoundly rounded medially and posteriorly; 

 anteriorly obliquely truncated or very slightly emarginate. 



Locality. — Shiloh, Cumberland Co., N. J. 



A much larger species than P. (^Anatina) papyracea, Say, but closely allied. 



SILIQUARIA, Schum. 



S. Carollnemis. — Oblong, ventricose, inequilateral, disks slightly contracted; 

 2 cardinal teeth in the right valve, .3 in the opposite ; sinus of pallial impres- 

 sion profound, extending beyond the line of the apex. 



Locality. — Wilmington, N. C. 



Closely related to S. yibba, but distinguished by the three cardinal teeth in 

 the left valve, and the more profound pallial sinus. There is a tubercle on the 

 anterior end of the nymjiha in each valve in the only specimen I have seen. 



SAXICAVA, Bellevue. 



S. myxformis. — Ovate, thin and fragile, inequilateral ; extremities rounded ; 

 surface marked with fine rugose concentric lines ; cardinal teeth small, two 

 • in the right valve. 



l/ocality. — Shiloh, Cumberland Co., N. J. 



MACTRA, Lin. 



M. medialis. — Subtriangular, ventricose, elongated ; beaks submedial, not 

 oblique; posterior extremity truncated; posterior basal margin straight; 

 lateral teeth striated. 



EULOXA, Conrad. 



Subtriangular, posteriorly sulcated ; cardinal teeth three in the left valve, 

 the two posterior teeth oblique; two teeth in the right valve, the posterior 

 one oblique ; sinus of pallial impression truncated or slightly emarginate 

 posteriorly. . 



E, ( Venus') latisulcata, C. 



CARDITAMERA, Conrad. 



C. aculeata. — Trapezoidal ; umbonal slope inflated ; base emarginate ; ribs 

 on anterior side crenulated, on the anterior side subspinose. 

 Locality. — Shiloh, Cumberland Co., N. J. 



ASTARTIDJE. 

 ASTARTE, Sowerby. 

 A. Leila. — Triangular, compressed ; marked by very regular closely-arranged 

 fine concentric lines. 



A. concentrica, Taomey and Holmes (not Conrad), Plioc. Foss. S. C. 71, 20, 

 3. Emmons, GeoL N. C. 289, 212. 

 Locality. — Virginia. 



Differs from concmtrica in being proportionally shorter, and in its much finer 

 and more regular lines. 



A. Virginica. — Suborbicular, inequilateral, convex ; margins rounded ; sur- 

 face with concentric grooves above ; lower half of the valves concentrically 

 striated. 



Locality. — Eastern Virginia. 



1862.] 




586 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



VENERIDjE. 



CIRC UMPH ALUS, Klein. 



Subgenus Lirophora, Conrad. 



C. athleta. — Triangular, thick in substance, with eight broad, prominent, 

 recurved ribs, striated at the base ; ribs without posterior laminae ; lunule 

 cordate. 



V. latilirata, Tuomey and Holmes (not Conrad). 



Locality. — Virginia. 



Distinguished from latilirata by its more numerous and narrower ribs, and 

 larger size. The marginal crenulations are much less distinct, and the umbo 

 broader. 



The subgenus is characterized by broad, thick, recurved ribs. The follow- 

 ing recent species belong to it : Venus tiara, Dill. ; V. paphia, L. ; V. Kellettii. 

 Hinds; V. varicosa, Sowerby ; V. fasciata, Don. 



DIONE, Gray. 



D. densata. — Ovato triangular, convex, inequilateral ; umbo somewhat flat- 

 tened, and the substance of shell thick in that part, and more so towards the 

 muscular impressions; pallial sinus strongly defined and rounded; lunule 

 lanceolate; anterior cardinal tooth rather thick ; posterior extremity acutely 

 rounded ; surface polished, with strong lines of growth. Length 2J inches, 

 height 7-10, 



Locality. — Petersburg, Va. 



Thicker than albaria, Say, with a less concave lunule margin, and otherwise 

 very distinct. 



D. Vijginiana. — Ovate, rather thin, slightly ventricose, inequilateral ; lunule 

 long, lanceolate, defined by a slight groove and carinated line ; basal margin 

 profoundly rounded medially; cardinal teeth prominent, compressed. Length 

 4 inch. 7-10, height 3 5-10. 



Locality. — Petersburg, Va. 



SCROBICULIINJE. 

 FABELLA, Conrad. 

 Suboval, inequilateral, posterior side shortest ; cardinal teeth in right valve 

 two, anterior one submarginal, straight, rudimentary ; the other thick, re- 

 curved, with a pit behind it; teeth separated by a profound oblique cartilage 

 pit ; left valve with three teeth, the anterior one slightly curved, and a pit 

 behind it, separated from the cartilage cavity by a slightly oblique tooth ; 

 posterior tooth rudimentary and parallel with the hinge margin; muscular 

 impressions near the hinge. 



F. (Amphidesma) constricta, C. 



A small bivalve from the Virginia Miocene. 



Errata. 

 Page 561, erase Busycon scalaris. 



563, for " MEGOPTYGMA" read MEGAPTYGMA. 



564, for " caelata" read caelatus. 

 566, for "curtum" read curta. 



566, for " (Odostomea)" read (Odostomia). 



567, for " F. (Cancellaria) biplicifera" read C. biplicifera. 

 570, for " quadricostata" read quadricostatus. 



570, for " duodecenaria" read duodecenarium. 



571, for " (Hidella)-" read (Hiatella). 



573, for " PEROXiEDERMA" read Peron^oderma. 



573, for ^^ fluxuosa" read Jlexuoaa. 



576, for " craticuloides'' read craticuloide. 



[m 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



587 



Eemarks on some species of PALUDINA, AMNICOLA, VALVATA, aad 

 MELANIA. 



BY JAMES LEWIS, M. 1)., MOHAWK, N. Y. 



Amnicola (Pal.) limosa, Say. Soft parts. 



Foot seeu below, truncate anteriorly, with acute angles laterally, the foot 

 being constricted. Back of the constriction the foot dilates to nearly or quite 

 the width of the anterior, the sides being parallel, thence posteriorly about l.V 

 diameters of the foot ; posterior termination an abruptly-shortened wedge. 

 Colors variable. In some specimens there are longitudinal strips of flesh 

 color on the inferior surface of the foot, widest behind the constriction, and 

 growing narrower posteriorly. Between these strips is a wider area of slate 

 color, with a few faint granulations. In other specimens the foot is bordered 

 with white on each side, the flesh color of the preceding variety being replaced 

 with what appears to be a band of compact granulations, which become less 

 numerous posteriorly; a few are seen in the central portions of the foot, where 

 they appear to be embraced in the parenchyma of the foot. Other specimens 

 are observed in which the visible soft parts are of a very uniform salmon color 

 without any observable markings on the surface. In these the bands 

 which appear on the mantle of other specimens, visible through the shell, are 

 absent. 



No obvious markings have been detected on the superior surfaces of the foot 

 in any instances. A few specimens, however, in favorable light, present 

 slight markings on the superior lateral portions of the foot, too indistinct to have 

 a name. 



The rostrum seen below has a strongly-impressed central line, which ex- 

 tends over its anterior extremity. In most instances the superior surface of 

 the rostrum has a dark longitudinal strip extending from the head forward, 

 growing indistinct and becoming lost before the extremity is reached. Each 

 side of this dark strip is an interrupted and not very well defined line of light 

 colored or yellowish granulations. The lateral portions of the rostrum are 

 marked by a dark strip that becomes more dense and broader as it recedes 

 along the sides of the head beneath the tentacles. These strips are more varia- 

 ble than the central strip. 



The tentacles are directed obliquely forward and are nearly parallel. They 

 are not always equally developed, being sometimes malformed ; the malfor- 

 mations usually manifested are slight deviations from a right line, with con- 

 tractions in length. Either tentacle may be seen to be affected in this way, and 

 sometimes both. In a considerable number of specimens, the inferior surface 

 of the tentacle presents a well-defined black line extending from the base to 

 near the tip. This line is not always present in both tentacles, and seems to 

 be more frequently wanting in the right. It is sometimes irregularly inter- 

 rupted, and may be so in one or both tentacles. When interrupted, the ten- 

 tacle may also be seen to present other irregularities. The eye is obviously 

 inserted in the dilated base of the tentacle, and less obviously in the head at 

 the base of the tentacle. 



Neck of the animal large and robust ; superior lateral portions of the foot and 

 neck without fold or sinus . 



In younger specimens the general appearances are the same, except that the 

 foot presents rounded lateral and posterior outlines, and the foot is usually a 

 little smaller in proportion to the size of the shell. The movements of the 

 animal are quite brisk, and free from hesitation, and have the graceful, gliding 

 motion peculiar to the genus. 



Amnicola (Pal.) geana, Say. 

 Paludina histrica, Ad. (Thompson's Vermont.) 



1862.] 




588 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Shell thin and translucent, form paraboloid, the apicial whorls having a 

 greater angle than those forming the body of the shell. 



Dimensions variable. In the Mohawk River, adults are often 3-16th inch in 

 length. In other localities it is usual to find them much less. 



Soft parts seen throiigh the shell orange or white, with one or more irregu- 

 lar bands like the preceding species. 



External soft parts — Inferior surface. — Foot as long or a little longer than 

 the shell, anterior truncated and rounded. The anterior lateral angles formed 

 by the constriction of the lateral portions of the foot as in other species. The 

 middle of the lateral portions of the foot expanded, growing narrower poste- 

 riorly and terminating in a rounded extremity. Anterior portion white, with 

 a translucent border ; posteriorly granulated with numerous, crowded, minute 

 white points. Tentacles diverging in front of the anterior margin of the foot. 

 Rostrum extending about half as far as the tentacles beyond the foot. Supe- 

 rior surface. External soft parts nearly all white and translucent : eyes black 

 and set close to the base of the tentacles ; between the tentacles is a longitudinal 

 strip of dark brown, which fades to orange on the base of the rostrum. 

 Scarcely any granulations, or other markings appear on any of the superior 

 surfaces. 



Melania subularis. Lea. Soft parts. 



Inferior surface of foot salmon colored, with a narrow, well-defined border 

 of lighter tint around the semicircular anterior margin, within which is a 

 wider band of a deep flesh color. 



The superior surface of the foot orange-colored; the anterior portion present- 

 ing a deeper tinge, with numerous well-defined black lines parallel with the an- 

 terior margin, but separated therefrom by a zone of the same tint, as the 

 narrow margin of the inferior surface. 



The superior lateral portions of the foot are marked with irregular anasto- 

 mosing black lines, which preserve a general parallelism with the margins of the 

 foot, but frequently terminating downwards in the lateral margins of the foot ; 

 toward the neck the anastomosing lines embrace numerous areas of granular 

 surface, in which the granulations are not strongly marked. The rostrum in- 

 clines to a yellowish tinge, and is marked by numerous fine black transverse 

 lines, which are least developed on the superior lateral portion of the rostrum 

 near the middle of its length. 



The anterior and a narrow lateral portion have a lighter appearance. The 

 tentacles present a faint greenish tint, and are marked near their tijjs with 

 dark bands, presenting a jointed appearance. The tentacles are small and 

 somewhat elongated. The eye appears as a small but well-defined black spot 

 at the apex of a rounded but not very elevated tubercle, growing out of the 

 head and posterior of the base of the tentacle, a little above a line connecting 

 the axes of the tentacles at their insertion. 



The lateral portion of the foot presents a vertical sinus or fold extending up 

 along the neck from the constricted portion of the foot behind the angular ter- 

 mination of the rounded anterior. The existence of this sinus permits the foot 

 to be largely extended. The color of the external soft parts is not uniform in 

 a series of specimens, though the form and the black lines are constant. In 

 some specimens there are scarcely any traces of orange or flesh tints. In these 

 the soft parts are more translucent, and the inferior portion of the foot is 

 •white, with a blue tint, resulting from translucency. The parts within the 

 shell are sometimes yellow or orange, and those of the apicial whorls sometimes 

 green. The motions of the animal in progressing are irregular. 



The foot is elongated, the shell remaining stationary ; the posterior portion 

 of the foot is then contracted, and the shell pulled forward. At this point 

 the foot presents an outline. 



These movements are sometimes changed, and the animal advances by an 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 589 



apparent gliding motion of the whole foot ; more usually the progressive 

 movements are an alternate expansion and contraction of the foot. 



This Melania abounds in the Mohawk River, preferring sloping, muddy banks 

 in eddies, where there is little current. 



Melania exilis, Haldeman. 



The shells of this species are quite variable in form and color, so much so 

 as to have drawn from a distinguished zoologist the inquiry if they might not 

 be more than one species. 



Some are elongated and slender, with scarcely any angularity on the larger 

 whorls below the carinated apicial whorls ; others are more robust, with a 

 wider apicial angle, with a tendency to form gibbous enlargements of the last 

 whorl. In these there is an obsolete angle between the base of the shell and 

 the surface of the spire. The soft parts present some diversity of color, as is 

 the case with all the univalves of this class observed in the Mohawk Kiver 

 (except Valval a tricar inata, which is pretty uniformly white.) There are, how- 

 ever, constant features which seem to characterize the species. 



Specimens in which the prevailing tints of the soft parts are salmon or 

 ^orange, have the anterior margin of the inferior surface of the foot marked 

 with a not very well-defined border of orange, which is darkest where lightest 

 iu the preceding species ; back of this, and covering nearly the whole bottom 

 of the foot, is an area of purplish slate color, surrounded entirely by a narrow 

 orange or salmon margin, which is not well-defined, except as limited by the 

 margin of the foot. 



In other specimens of lighter color, no obvious zones appear, the anterior 

 being pale, nearly white, and the translucency of the posterior parts permit- 

 ting a faint reflection of the operculum and shell to be seen through them 

 presents a darker appearance. In some instances the variety of color is di- 

 versified, and presents a faint purplish slate-colored area of horse-shoe 

 shape within a border of lighter color forming the posterior margin of the 

 foot. 



The superior surface of the foot near the anterior margin is marked with a 

 few black lines, parallel with the margin. Back of the angle of the foot these 

 lines are limited to a narrow zone along the lateral margin of the foot, where 

 they are irregular and inosculate with each other, and frequently terminate 

 downward in the margin of the foot. Approaching the neck, after leaving the 

 lineated margin of the foot, the surface presents a beautiful granulated ap- 

 pearance, from the effect of numerous, minute, brilliant yellowish or oran«'e 

 spots (of a faint greenish tinge), irregularly yet densely distributed over°a 

 surface of greenish black. There is no appearance of sinus or fold in the 

 margin of the foot and side of the neck. 



The rostrum is wider and shorter than in the preceding species, and pre- 

 sents a very robust appearance when the two species are compared. The 

 upper surface is marked with numerous well-defined transverse black lines • 

 between these the prevailing color of the surface is salmon or orange, with a 

 dirty greenish tinge. Usually the end of the rostrum is of a green tint, like 

 that produced by certain salts of copper when combined with organic matter. 

 This color is seen whether the parts are inspected from above, below, or in 

 front. One specimen in which this feature was absent presented all the other 

 prominent characters of the species. 



The tentacles are large at their base, less elongated and not so slender as in 

 the preceding species. At their base they are surrounded by a dense band of 

 brownish black, well-defined towards the head, but fading away indistinctly 

 on the side towanls the end of the tentacle. This band is constant, and seems 

 to be characteristic. The tentacles are usually of a beautiful ruddy salmon 

 color, lighter near the tips, where the surface is quite regularly marked with 

 black bands, imparting a jointed appearance to these organs. These bands 

 1862.] 




590 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



when closely inspected vrith a powerful lens, give the tips of the tentacles a 

 ciliated appearance, resulting from the manner in which the bands are ar- 

 ranged. The bands are well-defined on the side toward the base of the ten- 

 tacle, but fading away into linear patches towards the tip. 



In half-grown specimens the tentacles are more slender and elongated, with 

 more numerous bands extending often beyond the middle towards the head. 

 Occasionally a specimen may be seen in which the tentacle terminates in a not 

 very well-defined bulb, approaching in appearance the eye-bearing tentacles 

 of Helices. 



The eye is situated on the apex of the tubercle placed against the posterior of 

 the base of the tentacle, and appears larger than in the preceding species, at 

 the same time giving a massive feature to the head. The pupil of the eye is a 

 well-defined black spot, surrounded by a bright yellowish surface, which is 

 again surrounded by a darker area extending down the sides of the tubercle. 

 The motions of the adult are slow, and seem to be regular and continnous ; 

 younger specimens move more rapidly, and are observed more frequently to 

 drag the shell by an interrupted motion than the adult ; but no elongation and 

 contraction of the foot has been noticed in either young or adult, as in the , 

 preceding species. 



This species is found abundantly in the Mohawk River, in places where there 

 is considerable current, adhering to hard, dry banks, stones, sticks and aquatic 

 nlants. It is seldom found associated with the preceding species — their habits 

 being quite unlike. 



The following features of the two species above considered may suffice for 

 placing them apart in subgenera: 



1. The presence of a sinus or fold in the sides of the foot and neck of If. sab- 

 ularis and its absence in M. exilis. 



2. The extension of the anastomosing black lines from the margin of the 

 lateral portions of the foot upwards along the side of the neck in M. subulari^, 

 and the restriction of these lines to a narrow zone along the lateral portions of the 

 foot of M. exilis. 



3. A well-defined dark band around the base of the tentacle in M. exilis ; not 

 observable, or at most only faintly indicated, in M. suhularis. 



Cyclostoma lapidaria, Say. 



The soft parts of this animal have been observed, and notes in relation there- 

 to have appeared in the Proceedings of the Boston Soc. Nat. Hist. It may be 

 well to apply here a few inadvertent omissions. 



The rostrum is proportionally larger than in Amnicola and has the appear- 

 ance of Mtlania, being marked with well-defined transverse black lines. The 

 tentacles are proportionately large, and, instead of being directed obliquely for- 

 ward, droop and form an angle near their middle. The eye, instead of being 

 placed in a tubercle at the base of the tentacle, is placed in a tubercle, sur- 

 rounded by a well-defined and elevated process, presenting the appearance of 

 a cup or ring around the eye tubercle, which ring at its anterior side unites 

 with the base of the tentacle. The motions of the animal are entirely unlike 

 Amnicola (in which genus this mollusc has been included by late writers who 

 have examined the shell only, ) and are very much like the movements of 

 Melania siibiilaris, only that it exhibits more uniformly the expansions and 

 contractions of the foot in progressing, and also exhibits a very positive halt 

 at each movement. Its progress in moving is slow and irregular. The shell 

 is not carried obliquely erect as in Amnicola and Paludina, but drags behind 

 the foot as in Melania subtilari-s, and is hitched along in the same manner. 

 A figure of the soft parts of Truncatella in the Supplement to Terr. Moll, by 

 W. G. Binney is a better illustration of this mollusc than any figure of Avini- 

 cola yet published. 



This resemblance, together with an agreement in habit with Truncatella, 



[Pec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 591 



suggest that the mollusc now under consideration may properly be set apart 

 under a separate generic designation between Truncatella and Melania if it be 

 not retained in Melania. 



It certainly cannot be retained in Amnicola, as its external anatomy is too 

 unlike that of Amnicola in any respect to sanction such treatment. 



Inhabiting the waters in various parts of the United States is a small mol- 

 lusc first noticed by Mr. Say under the name " Melania isagona." Since then 

 it has been assigned by different writers to Anculosa, Paludina and Amnicola. 

 To Mr. Lea is assigned the credit of first surmising the generic place of this 

 mollusc, and an examination of the soft parts of this mollusc in connection 

 with other species of Amnicola confirms the correctness of Mr. Lea's decision 

 in placing this mollusc with Avinicola. The most marked feature observed in 

 the soft parts of this species when compared with other species oi Amnicola, is 

 the shortness and width of the foot. In this respect the foot corresponds 

 with the shell. It may be well to remark here, that the length and breadth 

 of the foot in all species of Amnicola observed by the writer, correspond to the 

 length and breadth of the shell. 



The following notes on Pahidii: a have, in part, been some time prepared. 

 Their publication at this time may serve a useful purpose. 



Paludisa ixtegka, Say, (De Kay.) Soft parts. 



The coloring of the external soft parts presents some variety, but less than 

 has been observed in other univalves found in the Mohawk River and Erie 

 Canal. A characteristic specimen exhibits the following features : 



Upper surface of foot mottled with numerous coalescing orange spots, more 

 or less brilliant, the interstices being slate color with a faint purple tinse, in 

 a strong light almost black, by contrast with the orange spots. The longer 

 diameters of these spots are directed toward the anterior central part of the 

 foot, causing them to appear somewhat as if radiating from that point. Be- 

 neath the shell (on the neck) ani anterior to theopercle the surface is nearly 

 destitute of spots, and of a light slate color. On the inferior surface of the 

 foot, the spots are less numerous, smaller and diminishing toward the central 

 line, on each side of which is an undefined space nearly free from spots. 



Removed from the shell, the mantle is observed to be densely covered with 

 pigmentum nigrum, from the margin bordering the aperture of the shell to very 

 near the last apicial whorl. The parts of the mantle which line the outer 

 portions of the shell are more densely covered with pigment than the part em- 

 bracing the columella. 



Embryonic specimens when ready for exclusion are nearly 3l6th inch long, 

 the shell translucent, pale olivaceous and permitting two or three faint black 

 linear bands on the mantle to be seen through it. These black lines subse- 

 quently extend, and form the coatingof pigment observed on the mantle of the 

 adult. This species, as well as other species of Paludina of this country, (and 

 perhaps this may be observable in all viviparous univalve molluscs, as it 

 certainly is to a greater extent in a genus of air-breathing molluscs of the 

 Sandwich Islands,) afi'ords about two per cent, of reversed specimens amon^-- 

 its young. A considerable number of specimens of this species having this 

 character have been found full grown, bearing young. The young in such 

 instances show only a slightly increased percentage of reversed specimens. 



It is not unusual to find among the embryonic young of this species, speci- 

 mens in which the whorls are made to embrace each other, as in Planortis. 



Specimens have also been observed in which the whorls were lax and sepa- 

 rated from each other. But no living specimens separated from the parent 

 have ever been detected with these features. 



Other specimens have been observed in which the whorls are drawn nearer 

 the axis of the shell, making the shell elongated. In these specimens the 

 parts which have been drawn away from the preceding whorls are ero<3od and 

 1862.] 




592 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the adiilt presents a curious scalariform appearance under these circuna- 

 stances. 



This species feeds on animal and vegetaWe food ; over one hundred were 

 taken from a decomposing salt cod-fish that had been thrown into the Erie 

 Canal. They have also been found feeding on Uniones recently dead. They 

 are most abundant in locations where refuse food from boats or other sources 

 accumulate in the Canal. 



The ovaries are usually free from young only a few weeks in early summer. 

 The number produced by an adult seldom exceeds thirty, and is often less. 

 Specimens have been found 1 9-lOth inches long. The usual dimensions of the 

 adult seldom exceed 1 6-lOth inches. The proportions of the sexes are some- 

 what different in this species from those of decisa and ru/a, there being a 

 somewhat greater percentage of males for this species. The females are about 

 eight times more numerous than the males. 



Paludina decisa ? Say. 



Paludina decisa, De Kay. 



This seems to be somewhat a stumbling block to naturalists in this conntry, 

 and writers who have endeavored to elucidate Mr. Say's writings on this 

 species, evidently imitate him in confounding two distinct species. Mr. Say's 

 figure of decisa in his American Conchology belongs to a group which embra- 

 ces P. ponderosa, Say, as its type, which species any one acquainted with the 

 soft parts would say is more nearly related to integra than to that species 

 which, by common consent among naturalists in the eastern portion of the 

 United States, (and evidently following Mr. Say's earliest types,) is called 

 decisa. 



The writer of this paper at one time confounded intefjra and decisa, and 

 continued in that error until obvious and constant differences from the em- 

 bryonic young to the adult, forced the conclusion that they were distinct 

 species. 

 P. DECISA. Soft parts. 



Spots less numerous than in integra, larger, brighter, circular, well-defined, 

 and separate, and not arranged radially as in integra. 



Mantle white, with scarcely &nj pigmentum nigrum. Embryonic young more 

 numerous than in integra ; no linear bands of pigment on the mantle. Length 

 ^ inch. Reversed specimens about two per cent, as in integra. No distorted 

 embryonic young yet observed. The reversed young seldom attain half the 

 size of the adult, and specimens have not yet been found with young. 

 No evidence has been presented that this species partakes of animal food. 

 Adults of this species sometimes attain a length of 1^ inches — usually less. 



rAiiUDi>-A KTJFA, Haldemau. Soft parts. 



Upper surface of foot of a dark slate color, almost purple when seen in a 

 favorable light, marked with numerous small disconnected greyish orange 

 spots occupying less of the surface than in decisa. Tentacles dark, with a 

 pale margin. Mantle covered with pigmentum nigrum. 



Embryonic young nearly as large as those of decisa, the shell of a decided 

 pink tinge, transhicent and with a polished epidermis. This last feature 

 characterizes the shell at all stages of development. Faint markings appear 

 on the mantle through the shell. 



The largest adults observed were nearly 1^ inches long. In these the last 

 whorl presents a flattened surface parallel with the surface of the preceding 

 whorls, with a somewhat well characterized angle between that surface and 

 the base of the shell. The angularity observable below the suture of integra 

 is never seen in this species, and the angularity on the middle of the whorl in 

 this species, is not seen in integra ; decisa has no angularities. 



Specimens of this species with well-marked bands have been observed. 

 Similar features have also been observed in integra and decisa, but in these 



[Dec 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 593 



they can be traced to injuries inflicted on the margin of the mantle at an 

 earlier stage of existence, while nifa presents these characters as the indica- 

 tions of a variety. 



Reversed specimens among the embryonic young do not seem to be as 

 numerous as in decisa or interjra, though they are not rare. They seldom 

 survive separation from the parent. Of many hundre Is of specimens taken 

 of all ages, only a single reversed specimen ^ inch in diameter attests their 

 existence after exclusion. No distorted specimens, either young or adult, 

 have yet been detected. 



This species has within a few years been introduced at the points where 

 observed. It prefers to associate with inter/ra rather tlian with decisa, and 

 this leads to the supposition that it is carnivorous, though no evidence has 

 been found which is demonstrative of that fact. 



The writer has been favored with proof sheets of a Descriptive Catalogue of 

 the species of ^4?n?!/co/a, Vivipara, &c., of North America, by W. G. Binney. As 

 I do not hope to alter Mr. Binney's views by any sugestions made to him, 

 the following are oflfered for the consideration of those wlio might otherwise 

 accord too much to Mr. Binney's somewhat sweeping generalizations. 



It is quite probable that many small molluscs, which are at present placed 

 in genera to which they seem most nearly allied by the forms of their shells, 

 will hereafter be separated when their soft parts have been studied. Two 

 instances appear in the preceding papers — " Amnicola isogona. Lea," and 



" {Cyc'ost.) lapidaria, Say.'' I'erhaps a third (Amnicola attenuata, 



Hald., 3d page Des. Cat.) deserves consideration, under a future review of Am- 

 nicola. There are good reasons for believing 'that the forms of the shells of 

 the various species of Amnico'a are embraced within limits typified by A. 

 tenuipes, Hald., a,nd A. isojona, Lea. A species more slender than ^4. tenuipes 

 should certainly have the evidence of the soft parts to confirm its position, 

 and it is unfortunately the case that these are too often passed over hurriedly 

 or entirely neglected. 



It is quite probable that '• Amnicola protea, Gould,'' will be found not to be 

 an Amnicola. 



Amnicola {Pa.\.} lustrica, Say, if Mr. Say's remarks on that species are en- 

 titled to any consideration, probably covers some such a shell as Valvata 

 pupa idea, Gould. 



Amnicola granam, Say. This species may perhaps be the same as Amnicola 

 obtiisa. Lea. 



Specimens of this species Cg^'anwnj) found in near, but dissimilar, locations, 

 present great variations in magnitude and color. 



Mr. Binney's treatment of the several species of Paludiua (Vivipara), the 

 apicial whorls of which are carinate, should be modified to conform to the 

 rules he applies to decisa and its analogous forms, or he should abandon the 

 position he has assumed with regard to decisa. It is quite as plain that Pal. 

 suhcarinata. Say, should be made to embrace as varieties all the species with 

 carinate apicial whorls as that decisa should embrace so many species as Mr. 

 B. has assigned to it. 



On page 22 of Mr. Binney's paper is a figure of decisa, which may be regarded 

 as presenting a tolerable outline of the typical form of that species, as first 

 understood by Mr. Say. On page 23 is a figure of a deformed Pal. integra, 

 the malformation resulting from an injury imparted to the margin of the 

 mantle of the animal in an earlier stage of growth. The original specimen 

 from which the figure was made is in the possession of the writer. 



Page 24, fig. 37, is a specimen of P. integra, in which the whorls are drawn 

 to the axis. The parts which should be applied to the preceding whorls are 

 somewhat drawn away at the suture, and are eroded. 



Page 26, fig. 38, is correctly named Pa/. {Vivi.) integra. 



Page 32, fig. 38, a reversed shell. All our olivaceous species produce this 

 form, and it cannot be regarded as a normal species. 



1862.] 41 




594 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Fig. 40, does not give a recognizable outline of typical Pal. rufa, of the size 

 of the figure. 



Fig. 43, page 27, refers to a species of shell found in the Ohio Canal at 

 (Jolumbus, Ohio. Other shells of a similar form at maturity, from other locali- 

 ties have been confounded with this as Pal. obesa; but later investigations 

 referring to the embryonic youiag and other specimens of various sixes would 

 warrant the conclusion that they were distinct. This shell stands related on 

 one hand to integra and ponderosa, and on the other to Pal. regularis, Lea. 

 The young shells nearly but not quite resemble Mr. Lea's types of regularis. 



pjcr. 44. Pal. genicala, is more nearly allied to integra than to any other 

 known form. 



Mr. Binney has given a figure of the lingual dentition of specimens of Pal. 

 integra on page 29. It is to be regretted that minute comparisons were not 

 made between those of integra with the teeth of rufa from the specimens of 

 the two species which were furnished him by the writer for that purpose. 



Mr. Binney is also unfortunate in his treatment of Pal. coarctata, Lea. It 

 certainly cannot short of doing violence to the subject be made to embrace 

 Pal. exilis, Aatb., to which P. compressa is here submitted as a synonym. 



ERRATA AND ADDENDA. 



Page "1, line 9 from bottom, for "c h ry os tic t u s" read chrysostictas. 



73, line 34, for laltris read Jaltris. 



75 line 7 from bottom, for Ophiomorphus read Opbeomorphus. 



76* note 3d, for 210 read 180. 



77 line 12, add loreal oblong. 



77' line 28, for " Haliophis" read Alsophis. 



73' line 13, for " epinephalus" read epinephelus. 

 154' line 11, add after Halophila, Gird., {l^Platyniantis, Gthr.) 

 154, line 12, add pi ic ifera. 



184 line 5 from bottom, add Tympanic orifice distinct. 

 ISo', line 34, for I in. 9 1. read 2 in. 9 1. 



240 line 6, for Carphoptis Harpesti read Carphophis harperti. 

 337' line 3 from bottom, for Homeroselaps read Horaoroselaps. 

 337 note, for Falvin read Salvia. 

 340' line 5, add, although the same parts may usually very early attain 



completion, thus becoming of great systematic value. 

 340 line 4 from bottom, add, from Ooroomiah. 

 340' line 3 from bottom, add Umvoti Zulu Country. 

 341', line 30, add, from Umvoti Zulu Country. 

 344 line 8, add, from Ooroomiah. 

 346' before Testcdinata insert Ckocodilia. Jacare 1 a t i r s t r i s. Gray, 



Dum. Bibr. iii. p. 86, Buenos Ayres. 

 350 line 14, add Perhaps the curivu of Azara, i. 226. 

 350' line 26, add as shown by Dr. J. E. Gray. 

 353' line 5, for p d i c i p i n u 8 read podicipitinus. 

 353' line 29, for variabilis read intermedins. 

 356, line 6 from bottom, and 

 357 line 21, for Von Martins read Yon Martens. 

 353' between lines 40 and 41, add stermosignatus ex Gthr. 

 353' line 46, after Phryne add Fitz. 

 359' note line 9, add perhaps not different from H. baudinii. 



The Reports of the Recording Secretary and Curators were read a.< 



•follows : ^^ 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 695 



REPORT OF THE RECORDINa SECRETARY. 



For 18G3. 



During the year ending 30th November, 1862, there have been elected eleven 

 members and thirteen correspondents. Five members have resigned. 



The following members have died : Mr. George W. Petereon, Mr. Charles 

 Henry Fisher, .Mr. Henry J. Boiler, Dr. Henry E. Drayton, Mr. Hugh Cooper 

 Hanson, Mr. Richard Wistar, Major Henry J. Biddle, Geaeral Francis E. Pat- 

 terson. 



The deaths of the following Correspondents have been announced : Mr. Grate- 

 loup, of Bordeaux; Professor Ortnsby M. Mitchel, of Cincinnati, 0. 



The number of papers presented for publication during the past year has 

 been ninety-five, as follows : 



By Theodore Gill, twenty-nine; Isaac Lea, LL. D., nine ; E. D. Cope, eight; 

 George W. Tryon, six ; S. B. Buckley and John L. Le Conte, M. D., each five ; 

 Temple Prime and Elliott Coues, each three ; Wm. M. Gabb, F. B. Meek and F. 

 V. Hayden, M. D., J. H. Slack, M. D., Wm. H. Edwards, Wm. Stimpson, Augus- 

 tus R. Grote, Prof. Asa Gray, each two; Charles C. Abbott, Sidney S. Lyon, 

 Thomas Meehan, George H. Horn, Harrison Allen, M. D., W. G. Binney "and 

 George W. Tryon, Benjamin D. Walsh, M. A., John Cassin, T. A. Conrad, John 

 Warner, Alexander Winchell, D. G. Elliott, F. G. S., Horatio C. Wood, Jr., each 

 one. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



B. HOWARD RAXD, M. D., 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OP THE CURATORS. 

 For lees. 



The collections of the Museum of the Academy continue iu their usual good 

 state of preservation. During the year the most important additions have 

 been as follows : 



1. A valuable collection in Natural History, presented by Dr. I. L Hayes, 

 and made by him during his late Arctic Expedition, consisting of skins and 

 skeletons of mammals, skins of birds, marine dredgings, plants, minerals, 

 fossils and 'Esquimaux skulls. 



2. A collection of about six hundred species of West Indian marine shells, 

 presented by Dr. A. Heermann. 



Besides the foregoing, the following have been received in the various de- 

 partments of Natural History: 



Mammals. — Eleven specimens of ten species were presented by Rev. Alden 

 Grout, and M. J. McKen, Dr. J. H. Slack, Van Amburgh & Co., F. Rhinelan- 

 der, Dr. J. Evans, Mr. Howard and Dr. Parker. 



Birds. — Ten specimens were presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. J. Evans, Dr. J. 

 H. Slack, W. H. Yeaton, J. Buzby and Mrs. Farren. 



Reptiles. — The Smithsonian Institution presented 55 specimens of 42 spe- 

 cies, besides 30 others in the name of the U. S. Government. Dr. Le Conte 

 presented 60 specimens of 23 species ; Mr. E. D. Cope 44 specimens of 30 

 species ; Rev. Alden Grout and M. J. McKen 15 specimens of 13 species ; John 

 Xantus 1-^ specimens of 9 species ; and several others were received from Dr. 

 T. B. Wilson, Dr. J. H. Slack and Dr. J. Evans. Eighty-six specimens of 29 

 species were also obtained in exchange. 



Fishes. — Small collections containing numerous specimens of about 40 

 species were presented by Rev. A. Grout and M. J. McKen, Capt. T. Y. Field, 

 E. D. Cope, C. F. Bernhardt, J. Roosevelt and S. Powel. 



1862] 




596 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



MoUushs. — A collection of shells from Port Natal was presented by Rev. 

 Allien Grout, and M. J, McKen, and a collection of 63 species was presented 

 by J. H. Sternberg, through Captain Field. Other specimens were presented 

 by Captain T. Y. Field, U. S. N., Dr. C. J. Cleborne, Dr. A. L. Heerman, Dr. 

 J. H. Slack, I. Lea, S. Smith and J. F. Whiteaves. 



Articulates. — The Smithsonian Institution presented 54 specimens of 37 

 species of myriapoda, and a number of insects, Crustacea, and spiders were 

 received from Rev. A Grout and M. J. McKen, Dr. J. Wilson, Captain T. Y. 

 Field, James Roosevelt and Dr. Stewardson. 



Radiates. — A collection of thirty-five echinoderms, from the coast of Maine, 

 was presented by Dr. J. H. Slack. 



Anatomy. — Skulls of animals and other anatomical specimens were pre- 

 sented by W. S. Vaux, W. S. Wood, Professor Frazer and Lieutenant De 

 Haven. 



Fossils. — A fine collection of fossils of the Swiss Jura was presented by 

 .Toseph Lesley, Jr. Several collections were also received in exchange, and a 

 number of specimens were presented by E. D. Cope, Dr. J. M. Corse, Rev. A. 

 Grout, J. McKen, Dr. J. Evans, Dr. Le Conte, A. H. Smith, Captain Field and 

 Rev. H. Riley. 



ilinerals. — Specimens were presented by W. S. Vaux, W. Struthers, Dr. 

 Rand, E. Kretzmar, Captain Field, G. D. Coleman and J. H. Thompson. 



Botany. — A collection of plants was presented by T. J. Hale, and other 

 specimens were received from Dr. Bertolet, R. Bingham and E. Durand. 

 Submitted by JOSEPH LEIDY, 



Chairman of the Curators. 



The election of officers for the ensuing year was held, in accordance 

 with the By-Laws, with the following result : 



President Isaac Lea, LL. D. 



Vice-Presidents Robert Bridges, M. D., 



Wm. S. Vaux. 



Corresponding Secretary Thomas Stewardson, M. D. 



Recording Secretary B. Howard Rand, M. P. 



Librarian J. D. Sergeant. 



Treasurer Wm. C. Henszey . 



Curators Joseph Leidy, M. D., 



Wm. S. Vaux, 

 John Cassin, 

 J. D. Sergeant. 



Auditors Wm. S. Vaux, 



Joseph Jeanes, 

 Aubrey H. Smith. 



Fublication Committee Wm. S. Vaux, 



Isaac Lea, 

 Robert Bridges, 

 Joseph Leidy, 

 Thomas Stewardson. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 597 



ELECTIONS IN 18 6 2. 



The following persons were elected Members : 



January 28. — George K. Wood, of New York. 



March 25. — John P. Crozier, F. Leypoldt, Henry Morris. 



May 27. — Robert Hare Powel, E. Spencer Miller. 



July 29.— Harrison Allen, M. D. 



Octoher 28.— Capt. Wm. F. Reynolds, U. S. Top. Engineers. 



November 26. — Thomas Scattergood, Jr., A. K. Smith, M. D., John 

 S. Billings, M. D. 



The following were elected Correspondents : 



January 28. — Lovell Reeve, of London; Gr. B. Sowerby, of Lou- 

 don; Temple Prime, of New York; Ph. P. Carpenter, of "Warrington, 

 England. 



February 25. — Francis Boot, M. D., of London. 



April 29. — Prof. Jos. Decaisne, Jacques Gay, Edouard Spach, all ot 

 Paris. 



«/mhc 24. — Dr. F. Stein, of Prag; J. Lachmann, of Geneva; Dr. 

 John Dean, of Boston. 



July -I'd.— J. H. Thompson, of New Bedford, Mass.; Prof. D. S. 

 Sheldon, of Davenport, Iowa. 



1862.] 




^^^S CORRESPONDENCE. 



CORRESPONDENCE OF THE ACADEMY. 



For 1863 



Letters were received and read as follows : 



Jan. 14th. Natural History, Society of Augsburg, August 3d, 1861 ; 



Society of Naturalists in Halle, August 8th, 1861 ; 



Society of Natural Science, Wurtemburg, July 1st, 1861 ; 



Royal Society of Sciences, Liege, July 27th, 1861 ; 



Royal Saxon Society of Sciences, Leipzig, July 30th, 1861; 



Seukenburg Natural History Society, Frankfurt-am-Maiu, August 22d, 1861 ; 



Imperial Society of Naturalists, Moscow, June 13th, 1861; 



Dr. Eufz of Paris, September 9th, 1861; severally accompanying donations. 



The Royal Society of Sciences of Liege, July 27tli, 1861 ; 



Royal Saxon Society of Sciences, Leipzig, Aug. 1st., 1861; severally acknow- 

 ledging the receipt of the publications of the Academy; 



The Society of Naturalists, Freiburg, July 10th, 1861; transmitting dona- 

 tions, and acknowledging the receipt of those of the Academy ; 



The Society of Natural Sciences, Hamburg, Nov. 27th, April 6th, 1861 ; 

 acknowledging the receipt of the publications of the Academy. From the 

 .same, Oct. 2d, 1861. 



Royal Academy of Sciences of Madrid, Jan. 1, 1862; acknowledging the 

 receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



Royal Academy of Sciences of Vienna, Jan. 25th, 1861 ; transmitting their 

 publication. 



Fel. llth. Prof. Henry, Secretary of Smithsonian Institution ; accompanying 

 a donation. 



Feb. ISth. Mr. E. D. Jackson, New York, Jan. 29th, 1862 ; transmitting a 

 donation. 



March ISth. Royal Imperial Geological Society of Vienna, Sept. 15th, 1S61 ; 



Lyceum of Natural History, New York, Feb. 24th, 1862 ; Editors Entomolo- 

 gical Monthly Journal, Vienna, Oct. 21st, 1861. 



Society of Natural Science, Altenburg, Sept. 24th, 1861 ; 



German Geological Society, Berlin, Oct. 7th, 1861 ; 



Royal University of Norway, Christiana, Oct. 26th, 1861 ; 



Royal Academy of Sciences, Munich, Dec. 2d, 1861 ; severally acknowledg- 

 ing the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



Prussian Academy of Sciences, Aug. 31st, 1861 ; 



Society of Natural Sciences of Nassau, Wiesbaden, Oct. 1st, 1861 ; 



Roral University of Norway, Christiana, Oct. 26th, 1861 ; 



Adolph Weiss, Vienna, Sept. 1st, 1861 ; 



Society of Sciences of Finland, Helsingfors, Oct. 18th, 1861 ; 



Royal Society of Sciences, Upsala ; 



Society of Natural Sciences of Offenbach-am-Main ; severally accompanying 

 their publications. 



Society of Natural Sciences, Lunenburg, Nov. 17th, 1861 ; 



Royal Academy of Sciences of Vienna, Oct. 2Sth, 1861 ; 



Royal Danish Society of Science, Copenhagen, July 1st, 1861 : 



Society of Natural Sciences of Saxony, Halle, Nov. 1st, 1861 ; 



Natural History Society in Nuremburg, Dec. 4th, 1861 ; transmitting theii 

 publications and acknowledging the receipt of those of the Academy. 



Geo. V. Frauenfeld, Vienna, Oct. 3d, 1861 ; acknowledging his election as 

 p orresjiondent. 



April I5th. C. Des Murs, Bordeaux, Feb. 28th, 1862 ; acknowledging his 

 election as correspondent, and in behalf of the Linnean Society of Bordeaux, 

 acknowledging the receipt of the Proceedings of the Academy. 




CORRESPONDENCE. 599 



London Athenaeum, March 25th, 1862 ; 



American Geographical and Statistical Society, New York, April 21, 1832; 

 severally acknowledging the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



April 22(1. New York State Library, Albany, April 19th, 1862 ; 



Lyceum of Natural History, New York, April 14th, 1862 ; severally acknow- 

 ledging the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



Mr. John P. Crozier, Upland, April, 1862; acknowledging his election U» 

 membership and transmitting a donation. 



May 13'h. The Imperial Academy of Sciences, Vienna, Dec. 23th, 1361 ; 



American Geographical and Statistical Society, May 1st, 1862 ; 



Royal Society of Elinburgh, Dec. 31st, 1861 ; 



Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society, Oct. 24th, 1861 ; 



Geological Survey of India, Sept. 14th, 1S61 ; severally acknowledging the 

 receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



Catholic University of Louvain, Sept. 16th, 1861 ; 



Royal Academy of Sciences of Amsterdam, Oct. 26th and 29th, 1861 : 



Royal Society of Zoology of Amsterdam, Feb. and April, 1S62 ; severally 

 transmitting their publications and acknowledging the receiiit of those of the 

 Academy. 



Lovell Reeve, London. April 14th, 1862 ; 



F. Boot. London, April 7th, 1862; severally acknowledging their election 

 as correspondents. 



A letter dated Harlsem, Jan. 1.5th, 1861 ; transmitting in behalf of the Min- 

 ister of the Interior a donation to the library of the American Philosophical 

 Society, which donation had been inadvertently presented to the Academy at 

 its last meeting, was transferred to the American Philosophical Society. 



Ju7ie 3d. British Museum, June 21st, 1S61 ; 



Royal Society of Edinburgh, Dec. 31st, 1861 ; 



Batavian Society of Sciences, Rotterdam, Sept. 30th, 1861 ; 



Society of Natural Sciences, Basel, Switzerland, Nov. 8th, 1861 ; 



Natural History Society, Augsburg, Nov. 20th, 1861 ; 



Royal Institution, London, Oct. 10th, 1861 ; 



Society of Natural Sciences, Berne ; 



Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society, Oct. 24th, 1861 ; 



Geologii-al Survey of India, Calcutta, Sept. 14th, 1861 ; severally acknow- 

 ledging the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



Royal Institute, Picadilly, Nov. 14th, 1861 ; transmitting its publications 

 and acknowledging the receipt of those of the Academy. 



Ji'li/ 1st. Natural History Society of Prussian Rhineland and Westphalia, 

 Bonn, Jan. 22d, 1862; 



Smithsonian Institution, Nov. 26th and Dec. 2Sth, 1861 ; 



Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences, Berlin, Feb , 1862 ; 



Lyceum of Natural History, Xew York, Jan. 13th, 1862 ; severally acknow- 

 ledging the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



Senkenburg Natural History Society, Frankfnrt-am-Main, March 1st, 1862 : 



Royal Academy of Sciences, Lisbon, March 22d, 1862; severally transmit- 

 ting their publications. 



Catholic University, Louvain, Nov, 26th, 1860 ; transmitting its publica- 

 tions and acknowledging the receipt of those of the Academj-. 



./■ilij Sth. Mr. Cheney, Cattaraugus, N. Y., July 3d, 1862; 



A. Grant, Mioli Mission Station, March 30th, 1862 ; accompanying a dona- 

 tion. 



July 15th. Smithsonian Institution, July 14th, 1862 ; .accompanying a dona- 

 tion. 



Aug. 5th. Jacques Gay, Paris ; acknowledging his election as correspondent. 

 Sept. leth. Royal Society, London, Jan. 10th, 1862 ; 

 Smithsonian Institution, Washington, Jan. 14th, 1862 ; 




600 DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 



Royal Asiatic Society, London, Jan. 1st, 1862; severally acknowledging the 

 receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



Physical and Medical Society, Wurtzburg, April 8th, 1862. 



Imperial Academy of Sciences, Vienna, April 12th, 1862 ; severally ac- 

 companying donations. 



Royal Academy of Sciences, Madrid, Dec. 31st, 1861 ; 



Natural History Society, Freiburg, March 5th, 1862 ; 



Imperial Leopold-Carolus Acaiiemy, .Jan. 19th, April and Sept., 1861 ; 

 Severally transmitting donations and acknowledging the receipt of those of 

 the Academy. 



J. H. Tliompson, New Bedford, Mass., Aug. 16th, 1862 ; 



John Dean, Boston, Aug. 16th, 1862 ; severally acknowledging their elec- 

 tion as correspondents. 



Oct. Ith. Royal Geographical Society of London, March 22d, July 1st, Dec. 

 4th, 1861, June 3d, 1862; severally acknowledging the receipt of the Proceed- 

 ings of the Academy. 



Prof. D. S. Sheldon, Sept. 18th, 1862; acknowledging his election as ^jor- 

 respondent. 



Dec. 2(Z. J. C. Cornay, Paris, Oct. 1st, 1862 ; 



Frederich Stein, Prague, Oct. 2d, 1862; severally acknowledging their elec- 

 tion as correspondents. 



British Museum, May 29th, 1862 ; 



Academy of Sciences of St. Louis, Nov. 8th, 1862 ; 



New York State Library, Albany, Nov. 10th, 1862 ; 



American Geographical and Statistical Society, New York, O^t. 1st, 1862 ; 



Royal Academy of Sciences of Belgium, Sept. 6th and 7th, 1860, Sept. 1861 ; 



Linna)an Society, London, Aug. 1st, 1862 ; severally acknowledging the re- 

 ceipt of the publications of the Academy. 



Bohemian Society of Sciences, Prag, March 21st, 1862 ; 



Natural History Society of Riga, April 22d, 1S62; 



Imperial Royal Academy of Sciences of Padua, Feb. 15th, 1862 ; 



Royal Imperial Zoologico-Botanical Society, Vienna, March 20th, 1862 ; 



Natural History Society of Dauzic, May 29th, 1862 ; 



Imperial Academy of Sciences, Vienna, Aug. 1st, 1862 ; 



Geological Survey of India, Calcutta, Dec. 20th, 1862 ; 



Delaware County Institute of Sciences, Nov. 25th, 1862 ; severally trans- 

 mitting their publications. 



Upper Hessian Society of Physical and Medical Sciences, Giessen, June 1st, 

 1862 ; transmitting their publicationi and acknowledging the receipt of those 

 of the Academy. 



Dec. '3th. iMr. Tlios. Scattergood, Pliihidelpbia, Dec. 8th, 18G2, acknowledg- 

 ing liis election to membership. 



Dec. 16th. John S. Billings, M. D., U. S. A., Philadelphia, Dec. 16ih, 18G2, 

 acknowledging his election tu membership. 



DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 



1862. 

 Bernhardt, C. F. Juljj 1st. Tetraodon Isevigatus. 

 Bertolet, Dr. Jiilij 1st. A collection of Sections of Woods. 

 Bingham, R. Jan. 1th. Fossil Wood, from near Alexandria, Va., and b 



specimens of Native Woods. 

 Busby, J. Dec. 9th. Young of the Eiderduck. Barnegat. 

 Cleborne, C. J., M. D. Sept. 2d. A collection of Marine Shells from the 



coast of S. Carolina. 

 Coleman, G. D. April 1st. Numerous specimens of Native Copper, Lebanon 



Co., Penna. 




DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 601 



Cope, E. D. June \lth. A coUectiou of Cretaceous and Eocene Fossils, from 

 Monmouth Co., N. J. July Int. Thirty-three specimens, 28 species, 

 Reptiles, from various parts of the world. Numerous si^ecimens, two 

 species of Fishes. Sept. 2d. Eleven specimens of Reptiles. 



Corse, Dr. J. M. Nov. 18</t. Two fine specimens of Fossil Fishes of Monte 

 Bolca. 



De Haven, Lieut. Jan. 1th. Tusk of Narwlial. 



Durand, E. April 1st. Specimens of the Club and Egg Gourd. 



Evans. Dr. J. April \st. A collection of Tertiary Fossils, and Coal, 3 Rep- 

 tiles, several Bats, 3 Bird Skins, &c., from Chiriqui. Presented by the 

 widow of the late Dr. John Evans. 



Exchange, received in Jnn. 1th. Brucite. Lancaster Co., Penna. Ma;/ iitk. 

 A collection of Coal Fossils from New Brunswick, B. P. Oct. 1th. Forty 

 specimens Oolitic Fossils from England. 



Farren, Mrs. May 6'h. Colymbus torquatus. 



Field, Capt. July 22cl. A collection of Shells. Any. 5th. A collection oi 

 Fishes of the genera Serranus, Hemiramphus, Vomer, Batrachus, Julis, 

 Diodon and Ophidium. A collection of Crustacea of the genera Mitlirax, 

 Eriphia, Xantho, Panopeus, Ozius, Lupa, Gecarcinus, Ocypode, Gelasi- 

 mus, Grapsus, Planes, Pagurus, Porcellana, Scjlla, Calappa and Lithodes, 

 from the Isthmus of Panama and other places. Fragments of Fossil 

 Wood and Bone, and several Minerals, from California. Sept. 2d. Six 

 species land and fresh water Shells, from Panama. 

 " Frazer, Prof. July 1st. Mummied Ibis. 



Grout, Rev. Alden and M. J. McKen. July Sth. Skins of Eleotragus redun- 

 cus, Pteropus ? Crysochloris ? and a collection of Reptilia and Fishes, 

 from West Africa. Sept. 2d. Fifteen specimens, 13 species Reptiles, 

 from Port Natal, Africa. A collection of Terrestrial, Fluviatile and Marine 

 Shells. A small collection of Insects, and two specimens of Fossil Wood, 

 from Port Natal. 



Hall, T. J. Feb. 18th. Collection of Plants, from Wisconsin. 



Hayes, Dr. I. I. Jan. 14th. A portion of his collection from the Arctic Re- 

 gions, viz. : Twenty-three species of Marine Shells, from the vicinity of 

 Port Foulke. Two Phoca barbata, 2 Vulpcs lagopus, 2 Vulpes fuligino- 

 su-j, 1 Lepus glacialis ; several foetuses of Phoca barbata and Lepus glacia- 

 lis, skeleton of Vulpes lagopus, a large skull of the Walrus, skull of a 

 young Walrus, and fragment of a second penal bone of the Walrus, skull 

 of the Polar Bear, fragment of 3 skulls of the Musk Ox, from Port Foulke, 

 and fifty bottles of dredgings from the vicinity of the latter place. A 

 small collection of Carboniferous Limestone Fossils, from Cape Leidy. 

 Nov. 2d. The remainder of his collection, viz. : 1 skeleton of Walrus, 

 from Port Foulke, 1 skin of Walrus, do. ; 1 heart of Walrus, from Whale 

 Sound; 1 jaw of Walrus, from Cape Isabella; 1 Seal skin, from Port 

 Foulke ; 1 Seal skin, from Godhavn ; 1 skin of Esquimaux Dog, from 

 Port Foulke ; 1 Fox skin, from Godhavn ; 1 Fox skin (blue), from Port 

 Foulke ; 1 Fox skin (white), do. ; 1 skeleton of Blue Fox, do. ; 1 skin of 

 Arctic Hare, do. ; 1 skeleton of Reindeer, do. ; 2 pairs of Reindeer An- 

 tlers, do. A small Botanical collection, from Port Foulke and other locali- 

 ties. The choice of specimens from a large collection of Esquimaux skulls, 

 from Port Foulke, Godhavn, and other localities, list of specimens se- 

 lected to be furnished by Dr. J. A. Meigs. The choice of specimens 

 from an Ornithological collection, from various localities, list of speci- 

 mens selected to be furnished by Mr. John Cassin. Geological specimens 

 from various localities, including some Silurian Fossils, from Grinnell 

 Land, located 81° North. Some small specimens of Meteoric Iron, from 

 Sa-vi-sa-vik, near Cape York, North Greenland. Also the privilege of 

 selection from the collection of the expedition, now in the store-rooms of 

 the Academy, as the Academy may desire. 




602 



DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 



Heermami, A. L. Jan. Ith. Seven Unio laticostatus, U. aureus and U. For- 

 slieyi, Texas. Jan. 14;/i. A collection comprising about 600 species of 

 "W. India Marine Shells. 



Howard, Mr. April 1st. Two skins of Sciurns Aberti. 



Kretzmar, E. April 8th. Two specimens of Gold Ore, from Nova Scotia. 



Le Conte, Dr. J. Aug. 5th. Collection of Fossils, from an Artesian well, 500 

 feet deep, at Fortress Monroe. Sept. 2d. Sixty specimens, 23 species of 

 Reptiles, from the collection of the late Major Le Conte. 



Lea, I. .Tan. 7th. Lithasia florentina and L. semigranulata, Alabama. 



Lesley, Jas., Jr. Aug. 12th. A collection of Fossils of the Swiss Jura. 



Poey, Prof. Sept. 2d. Eighty-six specimens, 29 species of Reptiles, from 

 Cuba and Mexico, in exchange. 



Parker, Dr. Maij 6th. An Albino Rat. 



Powel, S. Mzy 2d. Several Fishes, from Newport. 



Rand, Dr. B. H. tSept. 2d. Large specimen of Arborescent haematite, from 

 Pike's Peak. 



Rhinelander, F. Mai/ 2d. A foetal Porpoise. Newport, R. L 



Riley, Rev. Henry. Nov. 3'/. Two casts of Fossils, from the old red sand- 

 stone of Montrose, Pa. 



Roosevelt, J. A. Mty 20/ h. Numerous specimens of Fishes, Crustacea, Scor- 

 pions, Marine Annelides, &c., from Tortugas. 



Slack, J. H. Feb. 4th. Mounted specimen of Hylobates leuciscus, from 

 India. HufFnagle Collection. Two skulls of Sus Indicus. India, de- 

 posited. March 4th. Amblystoma tigrina, fromOakwood, N. J. Pecten 

 magellanicus, from Grand Manan. Juhj Sth. Thirty-five specimens 

 Echinoderniata, from Eastport, Maine. Jnly 9lh. Young mounted speci- 

 men of Scops asio, from Crosswicks, X. J. Dec. 9th. Cast of skull of 

 Gorilla castaneiceps, deposited. 



Schmidt, H. D. Feb. 11th. Large Grasshopper, from Brazil. 



Smith, A. H. April 8th. Four species of Fossil Shells, from the boring of 

 an Artesian well at Fortress Monroe. 



Smith, S. Sept. 23d. Diplothyra Smithii. Trvon, Coast of N. Y. 



Smith, T. G. 31ay 20th. Fossil Plant, from Sciiuylkill Co., Pa. 



Smithsonian Institiition. Feb. llth. Thirty-one specimens, 20 species, of Chi- 

 lopoda. April 1st. Twenty-three specimens, 17 species, of Myriapoda. 

 Sept. 2d. Fifty-five specimens, 42 species, Reptiles. 



Sternberg, J. H. July 1st. A line collection comprising numerous specimens 

 of 63 species of Shells, from Panama. Through Capt. T. Y. Field. 



Stewardson, Dr. T. Nov. 3t/. Six specimens of the Attacus Cynthia. 



Struthers, Wm. May 20ih. Fossil Coal Plant, from New Brunswick, B. P. 

 Two specimens of Marbles, from Cumberland Co., Pa. 



Thompson, J. H. April 1st. Sand, from Davis' Strait. Nov. llth. Two spe- 

 cies of Sponges, and six specimens of Crystalline slags. 



United States Government. 3Iaij Gth. Thirty species of Reptiles. 



Van Amburg's Menagerie Co. April 1st. Skin of a Bengal Tiger. 



Yaux, W. S. Feb. 4th. Skull of Crocodilus palustris. India, Huffnagle 

 Collection. Dec. dth. Tetrahedral Grey Copper, coated with copper py- 

 rites, from Cornwall, England. 



Whiteaves, J. F. Sept. 23d. Modiola barbata. England. 



Wilson, Dr. T. B. May 20th. Myeteria Senearaleusis, River Camma, TV. A. 

 Ardea goliath. R. Ogobai, W. A., from DuChaillu's Coll. Feh.4^h. Two 

 specimens of Hylidaj in Alcohol, from Newark, Del. Bottle of Reptiles, 

 . from Charleston, S. C. 



Wilson, Dr. J. Jan. "tth. Large Spider, from Vera Cruz. 



Wood, Dr. Wm. S. Feb. 18th. Skull of an Esquimaux. 



Xantus, John. April 1st. Thirteen specimens, 9 species Caudisona, Trimor- 

 phodon, Hypsiglena, Pityophis, Tropidonotus, Chilomeniscus and Lioh- 

 anura, from Cape St. Lucas, Cal. 



Yeatou, W. H. March llth. Two Brant Geese, from Tuckertown. N. J. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



DOXATIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 

 1862. 



603 



JOITRNAT.S AND PERIODICALS. 



SWEDEN. 

 U'p3;ila. Arsskrift ut gifvei af Kongl. Veteuskaps-Societeten, 1. Uprsala, 

 1S61. From the Society. 

 Nova Acta Regise Societatis Scientiarum. Upsaliensis. Seriei Tertise.. vol. 

 3, 1861. From the Society. 



DENMARK. 



Kolienhavn (Copeubagen). Oversight over det Kongeligodanske V^idenska- 

 bernes. Selskabs, 1860. From the Society. 

 Skivter af Naturhistorie-Selskabet, 6 vols. From the Library Fund. 



NORWAY. 



Christiania. Det Kongelige Norske Fredericks Universitets stiftelse frem- 

 stillet, 1861. From the Society. 



RUSSIA. 



Helsingfors. Bidrag till Finlands Natiirkimnedom, utgifuaaf Fiaska Veten- 

 skaps-Societeten, 1S60. From the Society. 

 Bidrag till Kiinnedom af Finlands Naturoch Folk, utgifua af Finska 



Vetenskaps Soeieteten, 1858 — 61. From the same. 

 Acta Societatis Scientiarum Fennicje, Tomiis 6, 18G1. From the same. 

 Moscow. Bulletin de la Societfe Imperiale des Naturalistes de Moscou. Annee, 

 1861, No. 1. From the Society. 

 Memoires of the same, Tome 3, Nos. 2 — 9. From the same. 

 Nouveaus Memoires of the same, Tome 13, Liv. 2. 

 Riga. Correspondenz-blatt des Naturforschenden Vereins zu Riga, 1362. 



From the Editors. 

 St. Petersburg. Memoires de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences de St. Peters- 

 burg, le Serie, Tome 3, Nos. 10 and 11. From the Society. 

 Bulletin of the same, Tome 3. Feuilles 23 to 36, Tome 4 to 10. From 

 the Society. 



HOLLAND. 



Amsterdam. Verslagen en Mededeelingeu der Koninklijke Akademie van 

 Wetenshappen. Elfde und Twaalfde Deel, 1861. From the Society. 



Jahrbuch of the same, 1860. From the Society. 



Verhandelingen der Koninklijke Academie van Wetenschappen. Negende 

 Deel, 1861'. From the Society. 



Bijdragen tot di Dierkunde. Achste Aflevering, 1859. From the Society. 



GERMANY. 



Altenburg. Jlittheilungen aus dem Osterlande. Fiinfzehnter Band, Mai, 



1861. From the Society. 

 Berlin. Abhandlungen des Naturwissenschaftlichen Vereines fiir Sachseu und 



Thuringen in Halle, vol. 1 and 2. From the Editors. 




604 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Archiv fur Naturgeschichte, 27 Jahrg. 1861, From the Editors. 

 Mathematisclie und Physikalische Abhandlung der Konigl. Akademie. 



Jahrg. 1860. From the Society. 

 Woschenschrift des Vereines zur Beforderung des Gartenbaues in den K. 

 Preussischen Staaten fiir Giirtnerei und Pflanzenkunde, 1861 and 1862. 

 From the Editor. 

 Berliner Entomologische Zeitschrift. Fiinfter Jahrgang 1861. From the 



Entomological Soc. of Berlin. 

 Zeitschrift der Deutschen Geologischen Gesellschaft, Band 12, 13. From 



the Society. 

 Monatsberichte der K. Preuss. Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin. 

 1861, 1862. From the Society. 

 Bonn. Verhandlungen der Xaturhistorischen Vereines, 18 Jahrg. le and 2e. 



Hefte, 1861. From the Editor. 



Braunschweig. Handbuch der Systematischen Anatomie des Menschen. 



Erster und zweiter Band. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 



Budan. Felsobb Egyenletek egy Ismeretlennet irta D. Vallas Antal. EIso und 



Masodik Fuzet, 1842 to 1848. From the Academy at Budan. 



Magyar Akademiai ertesito a Mathematakai. 1 Kotet 1 to 14. Szam, 1860. 



From the Academy. 

 Mathematical Palyamunkak, 1, 2 and 3 KiJtet, 1837-44. From the same. 

 Termeszettudomanyi Palyamunkak, 1844. From the same. 

 Cassel. Malakozoologische Blatter, Band 8 and 9. From the Maclure Fund. 

 Journal fiir Ornithologie, Jarhg. 9, 1861, and 10, 1862. From the Maclure 

 Fund. 

 Danzig. Neueste Schriften der Naturforsehenden Gesellschaft in Danzig. 



Sechsten Bandes. Viertes Heft, 1862. From the Society. 

 Emden. Vieiundsechsichter Jahresberichte des Naturforsehenden Gesell- 

 schaft in Emden, 1860. From the Society. 

 M^teorologische Untersuchungen, I860. From the same. 

 Fraukfurt-am-Main. Der Zoologischen Garten, 2er Jahrgang. From the 

 Editor. 

 Abhandlungen. Herausgegeben von der Senckenbergischen Naturfor- 

 sehenden Gesellschaft. Vierten Bandes, ler Lief. From the Society. 

 Freiburg. Berichte liber die Verhandlungen der Naturforsehenden Gesell- 

 schaft zu Freiburg, 1862. From the Society. 

 Giessen. Untersuchung(ni zur Naturlehre des Menschen und der Thiere, Band 

 8, 1861. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Drifter und neunter-Bericht der Oberhessischen Gesellschaft fiir Natur 

 und Heilkunde, 1853. From the Society. 

 Gottingen. Nachrichten von der Georg-Augusts-Universitat, Jahre, 1861, 



Nos. 1 to 22. From the University. 

 Hannover. Elftes Jahresbericht der Naturhistorischen Gesellschaft zu Han- 

 nover, 1862. From the Society. 

 Jena. Novorum Actorum Academiae Cssarae Leopoldino-Carolinae Germanicae 

 Nature Curiosorum, Tome 20, 1862. From the Society. 

 Isis, Encyclopedia Zeitschrift. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Leipzig. Archiv fiir Anatomie. Jahrgang 1861 and 1862. From the Maclure 



Fund. 

 Liiueburg. Erster Berichte iiber die Thiitigkeit des Naturwissenschaftliehen 

 Vereins in Lttneburg. From the Society. 

 Zehnter Jahresberichte des Naturwissenschaftlichen Vereins fiir Liineburg, 



1861. From the same. 

 Die Ostfriesischen Marschen und die Veranderungen der Ostfriesischen, 

 Kuste, 1861. From the same. 

 Mannheim. Fiinfundzwanzigster Jahresbericht des Mannheimer Vereines 



fiir Naturkunde, 1859. From the Editor. 

 Munich. Sitzungsberichte der Konigl. Bayer. Akademie der Wissenschaften 

 zu Miinchen, 1860, Hefts 4 and 5, 1861 Hefts 1 to 5. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 605 



Abhandlungen der Philosopli-Philologischen Classe of the same, Neunter 



Bandes, Erste und Zweite Abtheilung, 1861. From the same. 

 Verzeichniss der Mitglieder der K. B. Akademieder Wissenschaften, 1860. 



From the same. 

 Eede in der oflfentlichen Sitzung der K. Akademie der Wissenschaften am 

 26 und 28 Nov., 1861. From the same. 

 Neuhrandenburg. Archiv des Vereines des Freiinde der Naturgeschichte in 



Meklenburg, 1861. From the Editor. 

 Niirnberg. Abhandlungen der Naturhistorischen Gesellschaft zu Nurnberg, 



Heft 3, Band 2. From the Society. 

 Offenbach-am-Main. Zweiter Bericht des Offenbacher Vereins fiir Naturkunde, 



Mai, 1860, zum Mai, 1861. From the Society. 

 Regensburg. Correspondenz-Blatt des Zoologischen Mineralogischen Vereins 

 in Regensburg, 15er Jahrg. 1861. From the Society. 

 Flora, Oder allgemeine Botanische Zeitung, 19er Jahrg. 1801. From the 

 Botanical Society, Regensburg. 

 Stettin. Entomologische Zeitung, 22er Jahrg. 1861. From the Entomologi- 

 cal Society, Stettin. 

 Stuttgart. Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, Geognosie, Geologic und Petre- 

 faktenkunde, Jahrgang 1861. Fiinftes und Sechtes Heft. From the 

 Editors. 

 Bericht iiber die 13er Versammlung der Deutschen Ornithologen Gesell- 

 schaft zu Stuttgart, 1860. From Dr. Heermann. 

 Vienna. Die Feierlich Sitzuug der Kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften 

 am 31 Mai, 1861. From the Society. 

 Sitzungberichte der K. Akademie der Wissenschaften, from March, 1861, 



to April, 1862. From the same. 

 Wiener Entomologische Monatschrift, 5 Band, Nos. 4 to 10, 1861. From 



the Editor. 

 Jahrbuch der K. K. Geologischen Reichsanstalt, 1860, 11 Jahrgang No. 2. 



From the Society. 

 Mittheilungen der K. K. Geographiscben Gesellschaft, 4 Jahrgang 1860. 



From the Society. 

 Jahrbucher der K. K. Central-Anstalt fiir Meteorologie, 8 Band, Jahrg. 



1858. From the Society. 

 Verhandlungen der K. K. Zoologisch-botanischen Gesellschaft in Wien. 

 Jahrg. 1861. Band 9. From the Society. 

 Wiesbaden. Jahrbucher des Vereins fiir Naturkunde im Herzogthum Raflfan. 



Funfzehntes Heft 1860. From the Society. 

 Wurzburg. Wurzburger Naturwissenschaftliche Zeitschrift. Zsveiter Band. 

 Zweites Heft, 1861. From the Society. 



SWITZERLAND. 

 Basel. Verhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Basel. Dritter 



Theil les, 2es and 3es, Heftes. 1861. From the Society. 

 Geneve. Bibliotheque Universel. Archiv des Sciences Physiques et Natu- 



relles. Nouvelle Periode. Tome 2me, 1861. From the Society. 

 Memoires de la Societc de Physique et d'Historie Naturelle de Geneve. 



Tome 16. Partie Ire, 1861. From the Society. 

 Neuchatel. Bulletin de la Societc des Sciences Naturelles de Neuchatel. Tome 



5. Ime Cahier, 1861. From the Society. 

 St. Gallen. Bericht iiber die Thiitigkeit der St. Gallischen Naturwissenschaft- 



lichen Gesellschaft. 1858 to 1861. From the Society. 



BELGIUM. 



Bruxelles. Anuuaire de I'Academy Royale de Belgique. 1861 and 1862. 

 From the Society. 

 Memoires de I'Academie Royale de Belgique. Tomes 32 and 33, 1861. 

 From the same. 




606 



DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Bulletins de I'Academie Royale de Belgique. Tomes 9, 10, 11 and 12, 



18C0-61. From the same. 

 Memoires Coiironnes et Autres Memoires publies par I'Academy Royale de 



Belgiqiie. Tomes 11 and 12. Collection in 8vo. 1861, 1862, From the 



Society. 

 Memoires Couronnes et Memoires des Savants Etrangers. Publies par 



I'Academie Royale de Belgique. 4to. Tome 30, 1858-61. From the 



same. 

 Louvain. Annuaire de I'Universitie Catholique de Louvain, 1860-61. 25me 



Annee. From the University. 

 De Oratoriis publicis et privatis dissertatio Canonica, quam cum subjec- 



tis Thesibus annuente summo numire, &c. From the same. 

 Interpretatio epistolse Catholicse S. Jacobi quam cum suTijectis thesibus, 



&c. From the same. 

 Nine Theses. From the same. 



FRANCE. 



Angers. Memoires de la Academie de Maine et Loire. Neuvieme et Dixieme 



Volume. 1861. From the Society. 

 Bordeaux. Memoires de la Societe des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles de 



Bordeaux. Tome 2. From the Society. 

 Caen. Memoires de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences de Caen, 1861. From 



the Society. 

 Dijon. Memoire-3 de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences de Dijon. 2d Series, 



8th vol., 1860. From the Society. 

 Paris. Revue et Magasin de Zoologie pure et applique. From No. 12, 1861, 

 to No. 10, 1862. From the Editor. 

 Annals des Mines. Tome 19, Cinquieme Series 1861. Tome 1, 6me 



Series Liv. de 1862. From the Minister of Public Works. 

 Bulletin Mensuel de la Societe Imperiale Zoologique d'Acclimation. From 

 No. 12, Tome 8, to Tome 9, No. 10. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual 

 conditions. 

 Annales des Sciences Naturelles. 4e Series. 8e Annee, 1861 and 1862. 



From the Maclure Fund. 

 Comptes Rendus hebdomadaires. Seances de I'Academie des Sciences. 



Tome 51 and 52, 1860-61. From the Society. 

 Supplement to same. From the Society. 

 Journal de la Physiologie de 1' Homme et des Auimaux. Tome 4e, No. 



16. From the Maclure Fund. 

 Comptes Rendus des Seances et Memoires de la SociC'te de Biologie. Tome 

 2me de la 3me Serie 1860. From the Society. 



ITALY. 

 Milan. Atti della Societa Italiaua di Scienze Naturale. Vol. 2, Fasc. 3 and 



4, vol. 3, Fasc. 1 to 4, 1861. From the Society. 

 Padova. Revista Periodica dei Lavori della I. R. Academia di Scienze, &e., in 



Padova. Nos. 13 to 19, vols. 4 to 9, 1858-61. P^rom the Society. 

 Torino (Turin). Memoire della Reale Academia della Scienze de Torino. 



Serie 2da, Tomo 19, 1861. From the Society. 



PORTUGAL. 

 Lisboa. Memorias da Academia Reale des Scieucias de Lisboa. Tomo ~, 

 Parte 2, Nova Serie, 1859. From the Society. 

 Portugaliffi Monumenta Historica. Vol. 1. From the same. 

 Quadro Elementar das Relacues Politicas e Diplomaticus de Portugal, 

 1860-1861. From the same. 



SPAIN. 

 Madrid. Memorias de la Real Academia de Cieucias de Madrid. Tomes 3. 4 

 and 5, 1859. From the Sodety. 

 Resumen de las Actas of the same. 1^57. From the same. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 607 



GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND. 



Dublin. Proceedings of the Dublin University. Vols. 1 and 2, part 1, 1860. 



From the University. 

 Journal of the Geological Society of Dublin. Vol. 9, part 1, 1860-61. 



From the Society. 

 Journal of the Royal Dublin Society. Nos. 20 to 23, 1861. From tht 



Society. 



Edinburgh. Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Vol. 4, No. b'i. 

 From the Society. 

 Transactions of the same. Vol. 22, part 3. From the same. 

 Edinburgh New Philosophical Magazine. Vols, l-i and 15, No. 1, lb61- 

 62. From the Editors. 

 Leeds. Forty-fifth Report of the Council of the Leeds' Philosophical and 



Literary Society. Session 1860 and 1861. From the Society. 

 Liverpool. Proceedings of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Liver- 

 pool. No. 15, 1862. From the Society. 



London. The Athenaeum Journal. Parts 407 to 417. From Dr. Wilson, on 



the usual conditions. 

 Notes and Queries. From Nov., 1S61, to June, 1862. From the Editor. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Horticultural Society of Loudon. From vol. 1. 



No. 33, 1861, to vol. 2, No. 9, 1862. From the Society. 

 List of Fellows of the same. From the same. 

 The Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London. From March to 



June, 1861. From the Society. 

 The Quarterly .Journal of the Geological Society. From vol. 17, part 4, 



to vol. 18, part 3, 1862. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the Zoological Society of London. Vol. 4, part 7, 1861. 



From the Society. 

 The Annals and Magazine of Natural History. Dec. 1861, to Dec. 1862. 



From the Maclure Fund. 

 The London, Edinburgh and Dublin Philosophical Magazine. Vols. 22, 



23 and 24. From the same. 

 The Natural History Review. Oct. 1859. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual 



conditions. 

 The Journal of the Society of Arts and of the Institutions in Union. Vol. 



9, vol. 10, to No. 505. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Society. From vol. 9, No. 44, to vol. 12, No. 



51. From the Society. 

 Notices of the Proceedings of the same. Parts 1 to 9, 1860, '61, '62. From 



the same. 

 List of Members, &c., of the same. From the same. 

 I'hilosophical Transactions of the same. Vol. 51, parts 1, 2, 3. From 



the same. 

 Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Vol. 



19, parts 1, 2. Loudon, 1861. From the Society. 

 The Quarterly Journal of the Chemical Society. Vols. 15, 16, No. 56, 



1862. From the Society. 

 Journal of the Statistical Society of London. Vol. 25, part 1, 1862. 



From the Society. 

 List of Fellows, &c., of the same. From the same. 

 Journal of the Proceedings of the Linnaean Society. Vol. 6, Nos. 21 to 



23. From the Society. 

 The Transactions of the same. Vol. 23, part 2. From the same. 

 The British Journal of Photography. Vol. 9, Nos. 176 to 179, 1862. 



From the Maclure Fund. 

 Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Transactions of the Tyneside Naturalist's Field-Club. 



Vol. 5, part 2. From the Society. 




G08 



DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Yorkshire. Proceedings of the Geological and Polytechnic Society of the 

 West Riding of Yorkshire. April, 1860. From the Society. 



UNITED STATES. 



Albany. The American Journal of Agriculture and Science. Vols. 1 to 3. 



"Albany, 1S45 and Ib4f3. From G. W. Fahnestock. 

 Augusta. Sixth Annual Report of the Maine Board of Agriculture. From 



C. H. Hitchcock. 

 Boston. Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History. Vol. S and 

 9, to page 12S. From the Society. 

 Annual Report of the Trustees of the Museum of Comparative Zoology. 

 1862. From the Trustees. 

 Buffalo. Buffalo Medical and Surgical Journal and Reporter. Vol. 1, Nos. 1 



to 11. From the Editor. 

 California. California Farmer. Vols. 16, 17 and 18. From the Editor. 

 Columbus. The Ohio Educational Monthly. Vol. 3, Nos. 10 and 11. From 



the Editors. 

 Cincinnati. The Dental Register of the West. January, 1862. From the 



Editors. 

 New Haven. The American Journal of Science and Arts. Vols. 33 and 34. 



to No. 102, 1862. From the Editors. 

 New York. American Medical Times. New Series. Vols. 4 and 5, Nos. 1 to 25. 

 From the Editor. 

 Thirteenth Annual Report of the Regents of the University of the State 



of New Yorlj. From the University. 

 Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History of New York. Vol. 7, No. 10, 

 1861. From the Society. 

 Philadelphia. The American Journal of the Medical Sciences. New Series. 

 No. 85. From the Editor. 

 The Dental Cosmos. Vols. 3 and 4, Nos. 4 and 5. From the Editor. 

 The Gardener's Monthly. Vol. 4, Nos. 1 to 11. From the Editor. 

 Proceedings of the Entomological Society. Nov., 1861, to Oct., 1862. 



From the Society. 

 Journal of the Fi-anklin Institute. 3d Series. Vols. 43 and 44, Nos. 1 



to 5. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences. Vol. 2, parts 1 and 2. 



From the Publication Committee. 

 Transactions of the American Philosophical Society. Vol. 10, New 



Series, parts 1 and 2, 1862. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society. Vol. 8, 1861 , No. 66. 



Vol. 9, No. 67, 13b2. From the Society. 

 The American Journal of Pharmacy. Third Series, vol. 10,. Nos. 3 to 6. 



From the Editor. 

 Constitution, &c., de la Societe Frangaise de Bienfaisance de Philadel- 

 phia. From the Society. 

 Smithsonian Institution. Annual Report of the Board of Regents for 1S60 

 and 1861. From the Institution. 

 Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vols. 1, 2 and 4. From the same. 

 Classification of the Coleoptera of N. America. By J. L. Le Conte, M. D., 



part 1. From the same. 

 Result of the Meteorological Observations, made from the year 1854 to 

 1859. Vol. 1. From the same. 

 Salem. Proceedings of the Essex Institute. Vol. 2, No. 45. From the 



Society. 

 Worcester. Proceedings of the American Antiquarian Society. October 21, 



1861, to April, 1862. From the Society. 

 Washington. Forty-fifth Annual Report of the American Colonization So- 

 ciety, 1862. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 609 



CANADA. 



Montreal. The Canadian Naturalist and Geologist. Vol. 6, No. 6 to Vol. 7, 



No. 5, 1862. From the Editor. 

 Toronto. The Canadian Journal of Industry, Science and Art. New Series, 



from No. 37 to No. 42, 1862. From the Editors. 



ASIA. 



Batavia. Naterkundige Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch Indie, Uitgegeven door 

 die K. Natuurkundige Vereeniging in Nederlandsh Indie. Deel 22 and 

 23, Vijfde Series. Deel 2 and 3, 1861. From the Society. 



VAN DIEMEN'S LAND. 



Tasmania. Reports of the Royal Society of Van Diemen's Land, from the 



years 1849 to 1859. From the Society. 

 Tasmanian Contributions to the Universal Exhibition of Industry at 



Paris, 1855. From the same. 

 Catalogue of Plants in the Royal Society's Garden, 1859. From the same. 

 Industrial Products of Tasmania at the Crystal Palace, 1859. From the 



same. 

 Papers and Proceedings of the Royal Society of Van Diemen's Land. 



Vols. 1st, 2d and 3d, parts 1 and 2. From the Society. 

 Meteorological Observations, taken at Hobart Town. Tasmania, 1856-7-8. 



From the same. 



OTHER SCIENTIFIC WORKS. 



Advantages de I'Esprit d'Observation dans les Sciences etles Arts, 1809. From 



Dr. Wilson on the usual conditions. 

 Aves Islands Papers, 1861, Senate Documents. From the Department of 



State. 

 Agricultural Tracts. No. 1. Culture of Grasses, 1860. From Charles L. 



Flint. 

 Agassiz. The Mode of Developement of the Marginal Tentacles of the Free 



Madusse of some Hydroids. By A. Agassiz. Boston, 1862. From the 



Author. 

 Contributions to the Natural History of the United States of America, by 



Louis Agassiz. Vol. iv. Boston, 1862. From Dr. Wilson, on the usnal 



conditions. 

 Bache. Reports of the Superintendent of the U. S. Coast Survey, 1853, 1855, 



1856, 1858, 1859, and 1860. From A. D. Bache. 



Baer. Welche Auflfassung der lebenden Natur ist die Richtige ? Gesprochen 

 von K. E. v. Baer. Berlin, 1862. From the Author. 



Bailey. Notes on New Species of Microscopical Organisms from the Para 

 River, S. America. By L. W. Bailey. 1861. From the Author. 



Barrande. Defense des Colonies. Par Joachim Barrande, i. and ii. Prague, 

 1S61. From Jules Marcou. 



Berkeley. Introduction to Cryptogamic Botany. By the Rev. J. Berkeley. 



1857. From the Maclure Fund. 



Bianconi. Specimena Zoologica Mosambicana cura, J. J. Bianconi. Fasc. i. 



to siv. Bonanise, 1850. From the Maclure Fund. 

 Billings. New Species of Lower Silurian Rocks. By E. Billings. Montreal, 



1862. From tlie Author. 

 Bischoff. Gediichtnissrede auf Friederich Tiedemann. Von. Dr. T. L. W. 



Bischoflf. 1861. From the Academy at Munich. 



42 




610 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Bland. Remarks on certain species of Helicidse. By TIios. Bland, 1862. 

 From the Author. 



Bowen. Coal and the Coal Trade. By Eli Bowen. Philadelphia, 1862. 

 From the Author. 



Rronn. Die Klassen und Ordnungen des Thier Reichs. Von Dr. H. G. Bronn. 

 Dritter Baud, Leipzig, 1S61. From the Author. 

 H. G. Bronn's Lethsea Geognostica. Lief. i. to xii. and Atlas, 1858. 



From the Maclure Fund. 

 Catalogue of Shells in the collection of A. D. Brown. Oct. 1861. Prince- 

 ton. From the Author. 



Bushwanderings of a Naturalist, or Notes on the Field Sports and Faunae 

 of Australia. London, 1861. From J. D. Sergeant. 



Candolle. Prodromus Systeiuatis Naturalis Regni Vegetabilis. Auctore Al- 

 phonso Candolle. Pars Decima Quinta Fasc. i. 1862. From Dr. 

 Wilson, on the usual conditions. 



Carus. Bibliotheca Zoologica. Verzeichniss der Schriften iiber Zoologie bear- 

 beitet von S. V. Cams und W. Engelmann. Zweiter Band. 1861. From 

 Mrs. Lucy W. Say. 



Castelnau. Expedition dans les parties centrales. L'America du Sud. 

 Sous la direction du Comte Francis de Castelnau. Livs. xiv. sv. xvi. 

 Botanique, 1860. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 



Catalogue of the Trowbridge Collection of Natural History in the Museum ol 

 the University of Michigan. From the University. 



Chenu. Manuel de Conchyliologie et de Paleontologie Conchyliologique. Par 

 Le Dr. J. G. Chenu. Tome ii. Paris, 1858. From the Maclure Fund. 



Chickering. List of Marine, Fresh Water and Land Shells found in the vi- 

 cinity of Portland, Me. By J. W. Chickering, Jr. 4to Sheet. From 

 the Author. 



Colin. De Acido Hypoehlorico. Auctor A. L. Cohn. Vratislavise. From 

 the Author. 



Cornay. Principes de Physiologie et exposition de la Loi Divine d'Harmonie. 

 Par J. E. Cornay. Paris, 1862. From the Author. 

 Principes de Physiolocie et exposition de Formules de forces Vitale. Par 



J. Cornay. 1862. "From the Author. 

 De la reconstruction du Cheval sauvage primitif. Par J. E. Cornay. 1861. 

 From the Author. 



C'orrea. Lendas da India par Gaspar Correa. Tomes ii. Partie i. and ii. 

 Lisbon, 1861. From the Academy at Lisbon. 



Cotteau. Eihinides du Department de la Sarthe par Cotteau et Triger. 1 to 

 7me Liv. 1862. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 



Dana. Manual of Geology. By James D. Dana, LL. D. Philadelphia, 1863. 

 From the Author. 



Darwin. On tlie various contrivances by which British and Foreign Orchids 

 are fertilized by insects. By Chas. Darwin. London, 1862. Dr. Wil- 

 son, on the i;sual conditions. 



Davis. Notes on the Distortions which x^^'^seut themselves in the Crania of 

 Ancient Britons. By J. B. Davis. From the Author. 

 Crania Britannica. By B. Davis and John Thurmon. Decade 5. Lon- 

 don, 1862. Dr. Wilson on the usual conditions. 



Dawson. Alpine and Arctic Plants. By J. W. Dawson, 1862. From the Author. 

 Notice of the discovery of additional remains of Land Animals in the Coal- 

 measures of the South Joggius, Nova Scotia. By J. W. Dawson. From 

 the Author. 

 On the Footprints of Limulus as compared with the Protichnites of the 

 Potsdam Sandstone. By J. W. Dawson, LL. D. From the Author. 

 De Ram. Discourse pronounce u la Salledes Promotions le 26 Jan., 1860. 

 Par P. F. X. De Ram. Louvain, 1861. From tlie University at Lou- 

 vain. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. '»ll 



Deslongcliamps. Paleontologie FranQaise. Livs.lto7. Bracliiopodes. ParM. 



Deslongchamps. Paris, 18()2. From Dr. Wil:^oll, on the usual conditions. 

 Dozy. Bryologia Javonica. Auctoribus F. Dozy et J. H. Volkeuljoer. Frora 



Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Dubsis. Oiseaux de L'Europe suite aux Planches Coloriees des Oiseaux de la 



Belgique et de leurs (Eufs. Par Ch. F. Dubois. 147 to IGOme Livs. 



1862. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Eschricht. Urn Kordvalen (Balana Mysticetus, L.) af D. F. Eschricht og J. 



Reinhardt. 1861. Atlas to the same. From J. Reinhardt. 

 Flint. Sixth, Seventh and Ninth Annual Reports of the Secretary of the 



State Board of Agriculture. By Charles L. Flint. Boston, 18.59. 



From the Author. 

 Frauenfeld. Beitriig zur Fauna Dalmatiens, Von G. R. von Frauenfeld. 



From the Author. 

 Beitriig zur Kenntniss der Insekteu-Metamorphose aus dem Jahre 186('. 



Von G. R. V. Frauenfeld. From the Author. 

 Gachard. Actes des Etats Geueraus des Pays — Bas. 1576 — 1585. Par M. Ga- 



chard. Tome Premier. Brusselles, 1861. From the Author. 

 Geinitz. Dyas oder de Zechstein Formation und das Roth Liegende von Dr. 



Hanns Bruno Geinitz. Heft 1. Leipzig, 1861. From the Maclure Fund. 

 Gill. Analytical Synopsis of the Order of Squall ; and revision of the Nomen- 

 clature of the Genera. By Theo. Gill. 1861. From the Aiithor. 

 Gistel. Natur-Andachten. Herausgegebeu durch Johannes Gistel. 1857. 



From the Author. 

 Achthundert und zwanzig neue ober unbeschreibeue wirbellose Thiere. 



Von Dr. J, Gistel. 1S57. From the Author. 

 Vacuna ober die Geheimnisse aus der orgauischen und leblosen Welt. 



Von Prof. Dr. J. Gistel. From the Author. 

 Goldenberg. Flora Sarjepontana fossilis. Von Dr. Goldenherg, Stes Heit. 



1862. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Gould. The Birds of Asia. By J. Gould. Part xiii. From Dr. Wilson, on 



the usual conditions. 

 A monograph of the Trochilidse or Humming Birds. By .John Gould. 



From the same. 

 Grsesse. Tresors de Livres Rares et Precieux. Par J. G. T. Gr«sse. Tome 



troiseme. 1862. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Gulberg. Cm Cirklers Beroring. Af C. M. Gulberg. 1S61. From the Au- 

 thor. 

 Hemkel, W. G. Elektrische Untersuchungen. 5th Abhandluug, 1st Theil. 



1861. From the Saxon Society of Science. 

 Heller. Synopsis der im rothen Meere vorkommendeu Crustaceen. Von 



Dr. Heller. From the Author. 

 Hewitson. Exotic Butterflies. By W. C. Hewitson. Parts 41 to 44. 1862. 



From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Hofmeister. Phanerogamen 11. Monokot3'ledonen 1861. From the Author. 

 Homes. Die Fossilen Mollusken des Tertiar-Beckens von Wien. Von Dr. 



Moriz Homes. Band 2. No. 3&4. Bivalven. From the Geographical 



Society of Vienna. 

 Howson. American .Jute. By H. Howson. Philadelphia, 18G2. From the 



Author. 

 Humphreys. Report on the Physics and Hydraulics of the Mississippi Rivei', 



&c. By Capt. A. A. Humphries and Lieut. H. L. Abbot. 1861. Frcni 



the War Department. 

 Huxley. Addresses delivered at the Anniversary Meeting of the Geological 



Society of London. By Professor T. H. Huxley. London, 1862. 



From the Society. 

 Harris. A Treatise on some of thelnsects Injurious to Vegetation. By T. W. 



Harris. Anew edition. Edited by Charles I^. Flint. Boston, 1862. 



From Mrs. L. W. Say. 




012 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



ludia, Memoirs of the Geological Survey of. Volume 3, Part 1. From the 



Survey. 

 Annual Report of the Same. From the Survey. 

 Jones. Report upon the Colorado River of the West. Explored in 1S57 and 



1S58. By Lieutenant J. C, Ives. 1861. From J. S. Newberry. 

 Kleeman. Raupenkalender. Von J. Mader und C. F. C. Kleeman. From Dr. 



Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Kluge. Ueber die Ursachen der Erd-Erschutterungen, &c. Von Dr. R. E. 



Kluge. From the Author. 

 Lea, I. Observations on the Genus Unio, together with Descriptions of New 



Species, &c. By Isaac Lea. Vol. 8. Part 2. From the Author. 

 Remarks on the Unionidse, &c. By Isaac Lea. 1862. From the Author. 

 Description of a New Genus (Trypanostoma) of the Family Melanidje, 



and of Forty-five New Species, &c. By Isaac Lea. Philadelphia, 1862. 



From the Author. 

 Lea, M. C. Chemical Contributions to the July, November and September 



Nos. of Silliman's Journal. From the Aiithor. 

 Contributions to the American Journal of Science for the year 1862, By 



M. Carey Lea. From the Author. 

 Leonhard. Hiitten-erzeugnisse und Andere auf kiinstlichen Wege gebildete 



Mineralien alhutzpuncte, &c. Von K. C. von Leonhard. 1858. From 



Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Letter of the State Geologist Relative to the Progress of the State Geological 



Survey. From W. M. Gabb. 

 Logan. Geological Survey of Canada. Sir W. E. Logan, Director. New 



Species of Lower Silurian Fossils. By E. Billings. From the Author. 

 Loncret. Traite de Physiologic. ParF. H. Longet. Tomeler. ler and2dpartie. 



Fasc. 3. 1861. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Macleay. Description of a Spar Cave, lately discovered in the Isle of Skye. 



By K. Macleay, M. D. 1811. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual con- 

 ditions. 

 Maerlant. Alexander's Geestens ; von Jacob von Maerlant. Brussels, 1860. 



From the Belgium Academy. 

 Malherbe. Monographic des Picides ou Histoire Naturelle Gencrale et Par- 



ticuliere toLiv. 25. Par A. Malherbe. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual 



conditions. 

 Marcou. The Taconic and Lower Silurian Rocks of Vermont and Canada. 



From the Author. 

 Observations on the Terms "Peneen," "Permian," and " Dyas." By 



Jules Marcou. Boston, 1862. From the Author. 

 Letter to M. Joachim Barrande, on the Taconic Rocks of Vermont and 



Canada. By Jules Marcou. Cambridge, 1862. From the Author. 

 Marsh. Description of a New Enaliosaurian, from the Coal Formation of 



Nova Scotia. By 0. C. Marsh. From the Author. 

 The Distinguishing Features of Comets. By B. V. Marsh. 1862. From 



the Author. 

 Martini. Systematisches Conchilien Cabinet. Von Martini und Chemnitz, 



Von M. C. Kiister. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Maury. De la Necessitc d' un Systeme General D'Observations Nautiques et 



Meteorologiques. From the Belgium Academy. 

 Memoirs of the Survey of the United Kingdom. Decade 10. London, 1861. 



From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Meyer. Paleontographica, Beitriige zur Naturgeschichte der Vorwelt. Heraus- 



geseben von H. Von Meyer. 9er und lOer Band. 1862. From Dr. 



Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Michler. Lieutenant Michler's Report of his Survey for an Inter-Oceanic Ship 



Canal near the Isthmus of Darien. From John Larcombe. 

 Miguel. F. A. G. Miguel's Flora Indiae Batavae. Fasc. 1 — i. From Dr. 



Wilson, on the usual conditions. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 613 



Mihaly. Elmelkedesaka Physiologia es Psychologia. IrtaD. Mocsi Mihaly. 



From the Academy at Budan. 

 Milne-Edwards. Lecons sur la Physiolotrie et rAnatomie Comparee de 



I'Homme et des Animaux. Par H. Milue-Edwards. Tome Tme. 1&62. 



From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Molm. On Kometbanerues Indbyrdes Beliggenhed, af H. Mohn. 1862. From 



the Author. 

 Morton. Catalogue of Skulls of Men and the Inferior Animals, in the Collec- 

 tion of Samuel G. Morton, M. D. Third Edition, 1S49. 

 An Inquiry into the Distinctive Characteristics of the Aboriginal Races of 



America. By S. G. Morton. Second Edition, 1S44. 

 Some Observations on the Ethnology and Archeology of the American 



Aborigines. By S. G. Morton. 1846. 

 Brief Remarks on the Diversity of the Human Species. By S. G. Mor- 

 ton. 1842. 

 Observations on the Size of the Brain in Various Races and Families ot 



Man. By S. G. Morton, M. D. 

 Review of Morton's Crania Americana. All from Geo. M. Conarroe. 

 Motschulsky. Etudes Entomologique, redigees par Victor de Motschulsky. 16, 



17, 18 and 19 Annce. Helsingfors, 1861 and 1862. From the Author. 

 Coleopteres du Gouvernment de lakoutsk, Receuilles par M. Paulofski, par 



M. V. de Motschulsky. From the Author. 

 Coleopteres Rapportcs en 1859, par M. Senertsef des Steppes Meridionales 



des Kerghises et enumeris par M. V. de Motschulsky. 1860. From 



the Author. 

 Essai d'un Catalogue des lusectes de L'Isle Ceylon. Par V. de Mots- 



choulsky. ler liv. Moscou, 1861. From the Author. 

 Neilrich. Nachtrage zur Maly's Enumeratio Plantarum Phanerogamioarum 



Imperii Austracii Universi. Von A. Neilrich. Wien, 1861. From the 



Zoological Society of Vienna. 

 Nordmann. Paleontologie Siidrusslands. Von Dr. A, Von Nordmann. 1859- 



1S60. From the Authors. 

 Nystrom. Project of a New System of Arithmetic, &c., to be called the To- 

 nal System, with 16 to the base. By J. W. Nystrom, C. E. Phila- 

 delphia, 1862. From the Author. 

 Odernheimer. Das Festland Australien. Von Fr. Odernheimer. Heft 15. 



Wiesbaden, 1861. From the Author. 

 Oldham. Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India. Published under the 



direction of Thomas Oldham, LL. D. Calcutta, 1859. From the Geo- 

 logical Museum of Calcutta. 

 Ordway. On the Supposed Identity of the Paradoxides Harlani, Green, with 



the Paradoxides Spinosus, Boeck. By Albert Ordway. From the 



Author. 

 Orsolata. Delia Rottura spontanea del cuore con fatti nuovamenti assernati 



di Cardioressi. Dal G. D. Orsolata. From the Author. 

 Paleontologie Fi-angaise. Liv. 4. Tome 8. Zoophytes. 1861. From 



Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Parrish. The Phantom Bouquet. By E. Parrish, Philadelphia, 1862. From 



the Author. 

 Peters. De SerpentumFamilia Uropeltaceorum. Gulielmus Scripsit. C. H. 



Peters. Beroliui, 1S61. From the Maclure Fund. 

 Pfeiffer. Novitates Conchologica. Von. Dr. L. Pfeiffer, 16 Lief. From Dr. 



Wil-:on, on the usual conditions. 

 Poggendorff. Biographisch-literarisches Handworterbuch. Gesammelt von 



.1. C. Poggendorff. Fiinfte Lieferung. 2 Abtheilungen, 1862. From 



Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Prime. Notes on the Cyrena salmacida and the Cyrenella Americana of 



Morelet. By Temple Prime. From the Author. 




G14 DOiNATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Monograph of the species of Sphserium of North and South America. By 



Temple Prime, Philadelphia, 1862. From the Author. 

 Quetelet. Surle Coiigres International de Statistique tenu a Londres, le 16 



Juilliet, 1860. Par Ad. Quetelet. From the Author. 

 Rafu. America discovered in the Tenth Century. By C. C. Rafn, 1537. From 



Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Reeve. Conchologia Iconica. By Lovell Reeve. Parts 212 to 221. From 



Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Keichenbach. Xenia Orchidacea. Von Heinrich G. Reichenbach. 2er Band. 



les und 2e3 Heft. Leipzig, 1862. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual con- 

 ditions. 

 Retzii. Specimen Academicum de Zeolothis Succicis. D. M. Andr. F. Retzii. 



From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Ripley. The New American Cyclopedia. Edited by Geo. Riplej' and Charles 



D. Dana. Vol. 1 to Vol. 14, 1859. From the Library Fund. 

 Salle. Catalogue des Oiseaux dn Mexique ; composaut les Collection de M. 



A. Salle et de M. E. Parzudaki. From the Author. 

 Sandberger. Die Conchylien des Mainzer Tertiarbeckens. Non Prof. Dr. F. 



Sandberger. Lieferung 1 to 7. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Sandor. A'Felsubb Analysis Elemei irta Gyory Saudor. 1 and 2 Fiizet. From 



the Academy at Budau. 

 A KangrendszerKiszamitasarol es Zongorak Hongolasarol Merseklet nelkul 



Tiszta Viszoonyok Szerint, Irta GyiJry Sandor, 1858. From the same. 

 Saussure. Desc. d'une series D'Hymenoptera Nouveaux de la tribu des 



Sooliens par H. de Saussure. From the Author. 

 Ortlioptera Nova Americana. Series 2d. From the Author. 

 Mouographie des Guepes Sociales. Par H. de Saussure, 1858. From the 



Author. 

 Ora Siphonodentalium Vitrem en ny, &c., of Dr. M. Sars, 1S61. From 



the Author, 

 bciopt. Memoire sur le Mode de Formation des Cones Volcaniques et des 



Crateres. Par G. P. Scrope. Juillet, 1860. Paris. From the Author." 

 Shumard. Description of the Cretaceous fossils from Texas. By B. F. Shu- 



mard, M. D. Boston, 1861. From the Author. 

 Slack. Handbook to the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 



Philadelphia. From the Editor. 

 Smith. History of Delaware County, Pa. By Geo, Smith, M. D. , Philadelphia. 



1862. From the Delaware County Institute of Science. 

 Stainton. The Natural History of the Tiueina, Vol. 7. By H. T. Staintou, 



London, 1862. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Stoppani. Paleontologie Lombarde. Par L'Abbe A. Stoppani. 21st — 23d Liv. 



1862. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Sweet. Flora Australasica. By Robert Sweet, 1827. From H. C. Hanson. 

 Tryon. On the Classification and Synonomy of the recent species of Pholadi- 



dw. By George W. Tryon, Jr., April, 1862. From the Author. 

 On the Mollusca of Harper's Ferry. By George W. Tryon, Jr. From the 



Author. 

 Synopsis of the Recent species of Gastrochaenidse. By George W. Tryon, 



Jr. From the Author. 

 Ueber die Abhiingigkeit der Liuien distanzer im Spectrum des Gases. 1861. 



From the Author. 

 Volger. Versuch einer Monographie des Borazites. Von G. H. Otto Voiger. 



1855. From the Author. 

 Wagner. Denkrede auf Gotthilf Henrioh v. Schubert. Von Dr. A. Wagner. 



1861. From tlie Academy at Munich. 

 Waldheim. Rapport sur les Travaux dela Soci'Hu Imperiale des Naturalistes 



de Moscou. Par le Direc. G. Fischer de Waldheim. 1832. From Dr. 



Wilson, on the usual conditions. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. G15 



Walpers. Annales Botauices Systematicre Tomi Sexti. Fasc. Iand2. Auctore 

 Dr. C. Weller. Lipsije, 1861. From the MaclureFund. 



Walsh. Insects Injurious to Vegetation in Illinois. By B. D. Walsh. From 

 the Author. 



Wartman. Beitriige zur Auatomie und Entwieklungsgeschichte der Algen- 

 gattung Lemanea. Von B. Wartman. St. Gallin, 1854. From the 

 Author. 



Wells. Annals of Scientific Discovery for 1862. Edited by D. A. Wells. Bos- 

 ton, 1862. From the Author. 



Wiess. Die Grundstoff. Von Dr. A. Weiss. From the Author. 



Die Flourescens der Pflanzenfarbstofie. Von A. Wiess, 1861. From the 

 Author. 



Wilder. Contributions to the Comparative Myology of the Chimpanzee. By 

 Burt G. Wilder, 1861. From the Author. 



Whitney. Report of a Geological Survey of the Upper Mississippi Lead Re- 

 gion. By J. D. Whitne\-. 1862. From the Author. 



White. Observations upon the Rocks in the Mississippi Valley, which have 

 been referred to in the Chemung Group of New York. By A. C. White 

 and R. P. Whitfield. From the Author. 



Winchell. On the Rocks lying between the Carboniferous Limestone of the 

 Hamilton Group. By A. Winchell. 1862. From the Author. 

 On the Saliferous Rocks and Salt Springs of Michigan. By A. Winchell. 

 From the Author. 



Wolf. Zoological Sketches. By Joseph Wolf. From Dr. Wilson, on the 

 usual conditions. 



Wiillner. Die Absorption des Lichtes in isotropen Mitteln. Von Dr. A. Wiill- 

 ner. Marburg, 1862. From the Author. 



Zeuner. Ueber das Wanken der Locomotiveu. Vou Dr. Gustav Zeuner. 

 Zurich, 1861. From the Author. 




INDEX OF GENERA. 



Abra 288, 574 



Abronia 7, 167 



Acanlhocybium 125 



Acantholatris 114 



Acantholis 176 



Acer 12 



Acteon 570 



Actinobolus 578 



Acfmella 164 



Acus .•••• 5G5 



.Echmophorus 229, 404 



^dilis 39 



-Egialitis 321 



uEstrelata 327 



Agama 340 



Agelaius 313 



Agonoidfe 332 



Agrion 386 



Agrostis 90, 334 



Alausa 281 



Alcedo .^. 318 



Alepidosauroida 127, 332 



Alsophis 74-77 



Aluatta 507-515 



Alepidosaurus 128 



Ambljcirrhitus 105 



Ambljopodinte 240 



Amblystoma 66 



Ameiva 61, 351 



Amia 251 



Amiinaj 237 



Ammonites 23 



Amnicola 452 



Araorpha 162 



Ampelopsis 162 



Amphidesma 574 



Amphisbaena 350 



Amphistichus 275 



Amycla 287, 564 



Amusium 582 



Anas 322 



Anaspini 43 



Anaspis 43 



Anatinidze 572 



Anchomasa 208 



Ancylodon 16, 18 



Anguinella 568 



Angulus 573 



Anodonta 169 



Anolis 176 — 181, 356 



Anomia 582 



Anomolocardia 289, 580 



Anous 326, 557 



Antaceus 331 



Antennaroidte 241 



Anthus 318 



Antrozous 246, 248 



Aphanopus 126 



Aphanostephus 164 



Aplopappus 164 



Apodichthys 279 



Apodontis 125 



Apolectus 126 



Apseudobranchus 18 



Arbutus 165 



Architectonica 566 



Arcboscion 18 



Arcidae 289, 579 



Arcinella 576 



Ardea 321 



Arenaria 166 



Argentina 14 



Argentininae 14 



Argina 580 



Argynnis 54, 221 



Argyrosomus 15 



Aristida 92, 334 



Arrhyton 82 



Artedius 279 



Aseraum 42 



Aspidocottus 279 



Aspidonectes 191 




INDEX OF GENERA. 



617 



Astarte 288, 577, 585 



Astragalus 162 



Astronesthes 241 



Astyris 287, 564 



Atheris 337 



Atherinoidffi 280 



Atractaspis 337 



Atractosoion 17, 18 



Atrypa 21 



Anlichthys 234 



Aulorhynchoidae 233, 332 



Auriculidse 571, 584 



Auriculina 566 



Auxis 124 



Avicula 579 



Axinasinse 580 



Aythya. 322 



Baptisia 163 



Baculites 21 



Bastis 368 



Baftisca 378 



Barbatia 290, 580 



Barnea 194, 207 



Basiliscus 181, 356 



Batrachoidas 280 



Batrachyla 154 



Bellerophon.... 425 



Berberis 11 



Berycin2e 238 



Bernicla 323 



Bessonornis 315 



Betula 11 



Blasipus 304 



Blenniinae 241 



Blennioida; 279, 332 



Blepharichthys 262 



Boa '. 70 



Bodianus 237 



Botaurus 321 



Bothrops 347 



Bouteloua 93, 334 



Brachinus 523 



Brachjcranium 337 



Brachyotus 313 



Bracbvpus 350 



Bracbyrbinus 249, 236 



Bracbysaurus 182 



Bracbyteles 513 



Brama 127 



Brcmus 98, 336 



Brosmopbycinas 280 



Buccinidje 286, 562 



Bncepbala 323 



Bufo 157-8, 353, 357-8 



Bulbostvlis 164 



Bulla...'. 571 



Bullia 287 



Bulliopsis 287, 502 



Bumelia 165 



Bursa 562 



Busycon 286, 560, 583 



Buteo 312 



Csecum 568 



Caenis 381 



Calamagrostis 92, 334 



Calliope 316 



Callirbinus 348 



Callirboe 161 



Calopbrynus 358 



Calosoma 52 



Cal^-pteridse 568 



Cancellaria 567 



Caprus 127 



Carangoidffi 238, 260, 330, 430 



Caranginae 431 



Carassius 282 



Carinorbis 288 



Cardiopsis 417 



Cardiomorpba 416 



Carditamera 578, 585 



Carditidffi 290, 578 



Cardinia 413 



Cardium 58, 419, 576 



Carinorbis 570 



Carpopbaga 320 



Carphopbis 249 



Cassia 163 



Cassididse 564 



Castanea 11 



Catostoma 1, 339 



Caudisona 347 



Caularcbus 330 



Causus 339 



Cebedicbtbyina? 279 



Cebinffi 508 



Cebus 507 



Cecropis 318 



Celatoconus 566 



Cemoria 569 



Centriscus 234 



Cent rod era 40 



Centrolopbus 127 



Centronella 405 



Celtis 12 



CentronotinEe 279, 431 



Centropus 319 



Cepbalopoda 22 



Ceratopbrys 344 



Cercotricbas 317 



Cerambycida^ 38 



Cerastoderma 576 



Cerasus 11 



Cercis 12 



Cerithiopsida; 566 



Cerithiopsis 566 



Ceritbium 567 




618 



INDEX OF GENERA. 



Chsetocyperus 10, IG'Z 



Chaetodon 119, 238 



ChEedotontoidffi 243 



Chalcis 357 and errata 



Chama 576 



Chamseleo 340 



Chama^sanra 339 



Cbamelea 575 



Chaniieleopsis 182 



Charadrius 321 



Charina 339 



Cheilinus 143 



Chilodactjlus 103, 114, 118 



ChilodipleroidtB 251 



Chilolepis 338 



Clulophryne 341, 357-8 



Chimwroidae 331 



Chionobas 57 



Chiton 570 



Chirina? 277 



Chirodactylus 114, 119 



Chiroida? 277, 332 



Chironemus 103, 113 



ChiroDenematinas 112 



Chirostoma 280 



Chirus 277 



Chloroscombriiice 431 



Chondroplites 12G 



Cbonetes 410 



Chorististum 15, 16 



Chroecocephalus 293, 309-11, 325 



Chrorois 149 



Cinnyris 319 



Circe 575 



Circumphalus 575, 585 



Circus 313 



Cirrhilabrus 143 



Cirrliitichthys 105, 108 



Cirrhitince 103, 259 



Cirrhitoidffi 102, 259 



Cirrhitopsis 105 



Cirrhitus 103, 104, 122, 259 



Cirrimens 17 



Cirsium 165 



Citrinella 314, 405 



Clematis 161 



Clementia 575 



Cloe 379 



Clotho 339 



Clupeoidas 281, 332 



Clytus 42 



Cnemidophorus 61, 62, 63, 67, 356 



Coccuessus 178 



Cochliophagus 347 



Cocblolepas 569 



Colorhogia 81 



Columba 320 



Codakia 577 



Columbellinaj 287, 564 



Colymbetes 521 



Colymbidae 226 



Colyrabus 226, 323 



Comarosfapbylis 165 



Conidae 566 



Conocardium 420 



Contia 81, 339 



Con us 566 



Convolvulus 6, 165 



Corbicula '. 576 



Corbula 21, 572 



Corbulidje 572 



Cordulia 399 



Coregonus 15 



Corniger 237 



Cornus 11 



Corvus 313 



Coryphaena 127 



Coryphodon 338 



CottoidaD 279,332 



Cottus 13 



Craptalus 504 



Crassatella 289, 578 



Crassatellidfe 577 



Crassilabrus 143 



Crataegus 12, 163 



Craugastor 153, 357 



Creagrus 293, 312 



Crenella 579 



Crinodus 112 



Cristasaura 181 



Crius 127 



Crocodiluo 356 



Cronia 563 



Crucibulum 568 



Crumenifera 343 



Crypta 569 



Cryptoblepharus 339 



Cryptodacus 339 



Ctenocercus 177 



Cuculla;a 289 



Cumingia 574 



Curiyii addenda 



Cybium 125 



Cyclas 28, 577 



Cyclopteroidte 240, 330 



Cylichnidae 570 



Cymolutes 143 



Cymopterus 163 



Cvnosciou 16, 18 



Cynredus 118 



Cynoccpbali 485 



Cypraeida? 567 



Cyperus..... 9, 167 



Cyprea 567 



CyrenidcB 576 



Cyprina 27 



Cyprinodontoids 332 



Cyprinoidae 282 




INDEX OF GENERA. 



619 



Cypselus 318 



Cystigrathus, 156, 353, 357 and errata 



Oythere 429 



Cyttopsis 126 



Cyttus 120 



Dactylagnus 505 



Dactykthra 340 and errata 



Dactyliua 193, 450 



Dactylopagrus 114 



Dactyiosargus 103, 112 



Dactvloscopus 505 



Dactylosparus 117 



DactVlus 287, 563, 584 



Dafila 322 



Damalichthys 275 



Dasypeltis 191 



Decapterus 261, 431 



Dectes 39 



Dentalium 288,425, 570 



Dermatolepis 250 



Dermatostethus 283 



Desmanthus 163 



Diapterus 245 



Diclidia 43 



Dicrogiossus 341 



Dicrotus 125 



Dimades 348 



Diomedea 32C 



Dione 575, 586 



Diplectrum 236 



Diploglossus 188 



Diplorhyra 449 



Dithyra' 191 



DoliidK 564 



Dolium 564 



Donax 573 



Doryrhamphus 284 



Dosinia 575 



Dracontura 178 



Drejera 165 



Drepanliuna 360 



Drillia 285, 561 



Dromicus 76, 79 



Diymoeca 317 



Dryopteris 360 



Echeneoides 239, 332 



Echeneis 239 



Ecphora 563 



Eclect'js 319 



Ecpleopodidae 340 



Edraondia 414 



Echis 337 



Elanus 313 



Elapludion 41 



Elaps 347, 356 



Elastoma 236 



Eleocbaris.. 10, 168 



Eleotridinae 240 



Elidurandia 162 



Elymus 99, 337 



Enibiotoca 275 



Embiotocoidae 274, 331 



Emoea 187, 350 



Ensiphorus 584 



Ensis 571 



Entosphenus 331 



Ephemera 376 



Ephemerella 377 



Epheraeriua 367 



Epicrates 349 



Epinephelus 237, 250 



Epinnula 125 



Epitheca 400 



Eragrostis 97, 336 



Erigeron 164 



Eiismatura 323 



Erycinella 578 



Erythrsea 7, 166 



Ervthrolamprus 349 



Estrelda 314 



Etelis 445 



Eucyclogobius 330 



Euhyas 154 



Euonymus 11 



Eulabes 313 



EuUma 566 



Eulimidae 566 



Euloxa 578, 585 



Eumeces 186 



Eumicrotremus 330 



Eunectes 70, 350, (addenda) 



Eupatorium 1C4 



Euplectes 313 



Eupleurogrammus 126 



Eiiprepis 339 



Eury taenia 163 



Euystephus 337 



Euscbiitodus 145 



Fabella 574, 586 



Fagus 11 



Falco 312 



Fasciolaria 286, 561 



Festuca 97, 336 



Fiscus 314 



Fissurella 570 



Forestiera 7, 166 



Fratercula 324 



Fraxinus 2, 11, 166 



Fringillaria 314 



Fulica 322 



Fulix 322 



Fnlmarus 326 



Fusus 560 




620 



INDEX OF GENERA. 



Gadoidae 280 



Gadus 280 



Gaillardia 164 



GaleorhiQin* 282, 332, 484 



Garrulax 315 



Gastrochcena 571 



Gastrophysus 331 



Gastropleiira 182 



Gastrotropis 180 



Gaura 163 



Gelochelidon 535 



Gemma 575 



Gempylinie 125, 126, 329 



Gerap3'lus 125 



Genyonemus 17 



Genytremus 256 



Geococcyx 320 



Geocolaptes 319 



Gerarda 1 



Gerreinae 238 



Gerreoidae 245 



Gerrhosauriis 339 



Girella 244 



Girellina? 244 



Glabella 564 



Glaniolestes 191 



Gleditschia 11 



Glipa 43 



Glipodes 43 



Glyphidodon 150 



Glyceria 95, 335 



Gljcimeri? 571 



Gobiesocoids 330 



Gobiinje 240, 279 



Gobioidas 330, 332 



Gomphus 391 



Goniatites 427 



Goniistius 114 



Goniobasis 262 



Gonioplectrus 237 



Graculus 325 



Gouldia 578 



Gramineas 88 



Grammatorycnus 125 



Granoarca 290, 580 



Grapta 222 



Grus 321 



Gyranosarda 125 



Gyropleurodus 331, 489 



Hasmulon 253 



Halcyon 318 



Halea 164 



Maligenes 139 



Haliperca 236, 242 



Haliplana 555 



Halopbila 154 



Haplodactylinse 103, 110 



Harpalinae 508 



Harpe 140 



Hatasia 213 



Helenium 165 



Helicops 348 



Heloecetes 157 



Hemichromis 134, 139 



Hemilepi dolus 13 



Hemimactra 572 



Hemisalamandra 343 



Hemitriton 343 



Herodias 321 



(H)erpetogompbus 388 



Ilerpetodryas 356 



HerpetOQ I 



Hesperia 58 



HetEerina 383 



Heterachthes 41 



Heterodoatoidae 331, 488 



Heterodon 348 



Heteropus 185 



Heterotheca 164 



Himantodes 356 



Hierochloa 100, 337 



Hipparchia 57 



Hippocampus 282 



Hirundo 318 



Histrionicus 323 



Holcosiis 60 



Hollardia 235 



Holaci.nthus 243 



Holocentrura 237 



Holorhinus 331 



Holotropis 184 



Homalochilus 70 



Homalosoma 339 



Homoroselaps 337 



Hoplopagrina; 252 



Hoplopomatinae 278 



Hyperprosopon 275 



Hyphantoi'nis 313 



Hypoplectrus 237 



Hydraspis 346 



Hydrochelidoa 554 



Hydrolagus 331 



Hyla 154, 354-58-59 and addenda 



Hylodes 151, 153 



Hyperolius 191. 341-2 



Hypocritichthys 275 



Hypsiboas 353 



Hypsitario 330 



Hypsirhynchus 72 



Hypsipsetta 330 



Hypsypops 147 



Idonearca 289 



Idotbea 133 



Iguana 356 



Indigofera 162 



Iniistius 143 




INDEX OF GENERA. 



621 



Inoceramus 21, 26 



Isichthys 444 



Isognonion , 579 



l3opisthiu£e 18, 277 



Isopistbu? 18, 277 



Isoplagiodon 282 



1x03 315 



Jacare 356 



Jaltris 73 



Juglans 12 



Johnius 16 



Joaannetia ■ 194, 216 



Jouannetinae 194, 449 



Julides 142 



Julis 142 



Juncus 8, 167 



Kellia 577 



Ketupa 313 



Kuhnia 164 



Kuphins 193, 455, 480 



.Labrax 15 



Labroidte 140,240, 331 



Lacerta 189, 340 and errata 



Lactarius 18 



Laemanctus 182 



Leevicardium 576 



Lagothrices 508 



Lagothrix 514 



Lamellibranchiata 26 



Lamiidae 38 



Lampetra 331 



Lamprotornis 313 



Laniarius 314 



Lanias 314 



Larinse 292 



Laridje 292, 535 



Larix 11 



Larus 293, 325 



Lasiurus 246 



Latiarca 289 



Latrides 114 



Latridinae 103, 114 



Latridopsis 114 



Latris 103, 114 



Lazaria 578 



Leda 419 



Lepachvs 164 



Lepidiura 161 



Lepidocybium 125 



Lepidogobius 279 



Lepidopsetla 330 



Lepidopus 126 



Leptodomus 415 



LeptoD 577 



Leptonidae 577 



Leptoscopoidae 501 



Leptura 40 



Lepturus 126 



Lestridinae 292 



Leucosticte 314 



Leucus 293 



Limenitis 225 



Limosa 321 



Linsecomia 1C4 



Linnm 162 



Liocepbalus 182-4 



Lioperca 237 



Liophis 76-7, 348, 356 



Liopropoma ? 15, 16 



Liopns 39 



Liotrochus 288, 569 



Lirophora 575, 585 



Lirosoma 286 



Lithasia 273 



Lithodytes 153, 352 



Lithospermum 165 



Littorina 567 



Liuperus 352 



Lopbortyx 321 



I Lucina 36, 577 



! Lucinidae 577 



! Lunatia 565 



Lutjaninae 236, 251 



Lutrariinae 573 



Lyca?na 56, 224 



Lycodonomorphus 339 



Lyropecten 291 



Lygophis 75, 80, 348 



Lyrosoma 561 



Lysapsus 155, 351 



Mabuia 185, 350 



Machaeranthera 164 



Macronyx 314 



Macrogomphus 389 



Macromia 397 



Macroramphus 321 



ilacrotrachije 191 



Mactra 572, 5S5 



M>-jaqueus 327 



Malacanthini 240 



Malacocentrus ^.... 143 



Mallotus 14 



Malvastrum 161 



Mancus 339 and errata 



Mangelia 286,562 



Marcuseniu3 139 



Mareca 322 



Martesia 192, 194 



Megalobatrachus 66 



Megalophonus 314 



Megaloptereae 557 



Megoptygma 563 



Melampus 571, 534 



Melanetta 323 




622 



INDEX OP GENERA. 



Melaniidas 1G9, 262,272, 567 



Melopus 314 



jlenlosoma 114 



Menticirrhus 17 



Metitiperca 23G 



Mentzelia 163 



Merista 407 



Mercenaria 574 



Merula 314 



Mesodesma 574 



Mesopus 14 



Metis 573 



Microcelis 315 



Microdactylus 357 



Microlepidotu3 255 



Microlophus 351 



Microuisus 312 



Microstoma 14 



Milvas 312 



Modiola 579 



Monilia 569 



Monitor 340 



Monocondyloea 176 



Monobaramus 40 



Monothvra 194 



Mordella 43 



Mordellida; 43 



Mordellini 43 



Mordelllstena 43 



!Mormoc 324 



Mormyrinae 139, 443 



Morus 8, 167 



Motacilla 317 



Muhlenbergia 91, 334 



Mulinia 573 



Mulloidae 256 



Murseaoidse 332 



Mures 560 



Musculium 32, 34 



Mya 59, 572 



Myalina 411 



Myidae 572 



Myiophonus 315 



Myriopristis 237 



Mysia 577 



Mytiloconcha 290, 579 



Mytilus 413 



Natica 564 



Naticidse 564 



Naticina 565 



Xatrix 338 



Nautilus 25, 428 



Navea 184, 210 



Nectarinia 319 



Nectris. 327 



Nematis tioidse 258 



Nematistius 258 



Nematodaetylus 114, 121 



XetDura 316 



Xeosorex 188 



Xeptunea 560 



Nation 322 



Xeurergus 343 



Xeverita 564 



Xicotiana 6, 166 



Niso 566 



Xoctnse 59 



Xoetia 290, 580 



Nomeus 240 



Xotidanoidee 492 



Xotophthdlmus 343 



Xotorbynchus 493 



Xovacula 143 



Nacula 4, 16 



Xuculana 581 



Xumenius 321 



Obeliscus 565 



Ocyurus 237 



Odonata 381, 388 



Odontoscion 18 



Odostomia 566 



(Enothera 163 



Olivella 563 



Olividae .'563 



OIneis 57 



Ommastrephes 483 



Oncocottus 13 



Oneyda 188 



Opheodes 350 



Opheomorphus 75, 348 



Ophidiuroidje 332 



Ophidioidffi 241, 278 



Opistliognatliinie 241 



Orbicula 582 



Oreosoma 126 



Ortbis 409 



Orihoceras 429 



Ortholaemus 351 



Orlhonota 414 



Ortbopsetta 330 



Ortbostoecbus 255 



Orycninae 125, 329 



Orycnopsis 125 



Orycnus 125 



Osmerus 14 



Ossifraga 326 



Osteolaemus 191 



Ostrea 21, 291, 582 



Otilopbus 357-8 



Otolithinae 17 



Otolithus 16, 18 



Otus 313 



Osoplus 41 



Oxybapbus 7, 167 



Oxybelis 356 



Oxycirrhites 105, 109 




INDEX OF GENERA. 



623 



Oxjlebiinae 2?7 



Oxvrhina 235 



Oxyrhopus 347 



Pagophila 008 



Palingenia 373 



Paludinidae 567 



Pamphila 57 



Pandora 572 



Pandorella 572 



Panolopus 188 



Paphiinae 574 



Paraloma 181 



Paramya 572 



Paraphoias 1S4, 214 



Parastarte 288 



Paratractug 330 



Parnassius 225 



Parophrys 281 



Parthenium 164 



Passer 314 



Patella 570 



Pica 313 



Pecten 291, 581 



Pectenidae 291 



Pediocaetes 402 



Pelecanus 324 



Pelionetta 323 



Peltaphryne 344 



Penitella" 194, 215 



Pentaria 43 



Peatstemon 165 



Peprilus 126 



Percinae 15, 236 



Percoidas 249, 331 



Periops 338 



Periploma 572, 585 



Perissodon 573 



Peristernia 561 



Perlina 362 



Perna 579 



Petaloconchus 568 



Petricola 576 



Petrocephalinae 443 



Petiocincla 315 



Petrocossypus 314 



Petromyzontoids 331 



Phacelia 165 



Phaca 162 



Phalaropus 322 



Phaleris 324 



Pbalotris 349 



Phileozera 165 



Philodryas 73, 74,348 



Philothamnus 339 



Phimophis 347 



Phlox 5, 165 



Pholadidse 191, 193, 449, 571 



PholadinK 192 



Pholadomya 28, 572 



Pholas 192-221, 571 



Phrjniscus 353 



Phrynocerus 157, 344 



Phrynoidis 353, 357, 358 



Phrynonax 348 



Phlheirichthys 239 



Phyllantlms 7, 167 



Pbyllobates 154 



Phyllodactylus 176 



Phyllomedusa 355 



Phyllosira 349 



Physalis 6, 166 



Pisum 32 



Piraelepteroidae 244, 331 



Pimelepterus J45 



Pisidium ■y,2 



Placunanomia 53^ 



Pianorbis ^ 525 



Platanas n 



Platyinius 237 



Platymantis, in errata 



Platypterix 59, 359 



Plectromantis .^52 



Plectrypops , 237 



Plioplygma 503 



Pleuraphis 95, 335 



Pleurodema 352 



j Pleurouectes 241, 280, 330 



Pleurotomaria , 423 



Pleurotomida; 5.31^ 284 



Plicatula 5^2 



Pliocercus 72, 356 



Pleiorbytis 286 



Pliorhytis 575 



Poa 96, 336 



Podireps 220, 323, 404 



Podicipida? 226 



Podilymbus 232, 323 



Pogonocherus 39 



Polychrus 35], 



Polyneraatoidse 258 



Polypogon 68, 333 



Pomacanthodes 244 



Pomacentroidaj 145, 148,238 



Pomatominse 431 



Populus n 



Porcellana 563 



Porcellanelia 5f,4 



PoroDOtus 12G 



Posidonomya 420 



Potamanthus 372 



Pratincola 316 



Priacanthus 132 242 



Prionurus 242 



Prioniis 43 



Pristipomatoidse 238, 253 



Producta 411 



Promerops 319 




624 



INDEX OF GENERA. 



Prometheus 125 



Prospinus 237 



Psammocola 573 



Pseudacris 157 



Pseudis 156, 352 



Pseudoelaps 349 



Pseudophis 348 



Psocina 361 



Psoralea 162 



Psychrolutoids 332 



Pterinea 412 



Pteromeris 290, 578 



Pteroneraus 118 



Pteroplatus 42 



Puffinus 327 



Purpuricenus 42 



Purpurida; 563 



Pugiunculus 423 



Pyramidellidae 565 



Pjronicia 343 



Pyrotrichus 41 



Pyrus 11 



Pyxicephalus 352 



Quercus 11, 100 



Radula 582 



Raioidse 282 



Rangia 573 



Reguloides 317 



Rallus 322 



Remora 239, 240 



Rana 340 



Retropinna 14 



Retzia , 406 



Rhaebo 357-8 



Rhitia 500 



Rhinoberyx 237 



Rhinoidae 332, 499 



Rhinoscion 17 



Rhinotriacis 486 



Rhodostethia 293, 311 



Rhoptrura 339 



Rhomboplites 237 



Rhynchicbthys 237 



Rhyncbonella 407 



Rhyncopinae 292 



RhypticinJE 236, 250 



Rhytisma 507 



Riopa 185 



Risa 304, 325 



Robinia 11 



Ruticilla 316 



Ruvettus 125 



Sabastodes 278 



Sabbatia 7, 166 



Salamandridse 343 



Salmo 102, 241, 332 



Salmonoids 330 



Sanguinolaria 421 



Sanguinolites 414 



Sapajou 509 



Sarda 125 



Saxicava 571, 585 



Saxifraga 163 



Scala 565 



ScalaridcE 565 



Scapharca 579 



Scaphites 22 



Scartiscus 182, 351 



Schismaderma 358 



Schroteria 196 



Schistorus 237 



Sciffinoidffi 16, 238, 257, 277. 331 



Scissodesma 572 



Sconsia 564 



Scorpaenichthys 13 



Scorpaenoidae 278, 329 



Scotophis 338 



Hcrobicularidfe 288 



Scrobiculariinse 574 



Scrobiculiinse 586 



Scomber 124, 260 



Scombrinje 124, 238, 260, 329 



Scombropinfe 237 



Scylliodontes 485 



Scy topis 354 



Sebasticbthys 329 



Selasphorus 319 



Seinele 574 



Semicassis 564 



Sericocarpus 164 



Serinus 314 



Seriphus 15,18, 277 



Serranins 236, 249 



Serranus 421,445 



Sibon 356 



Sicydiinee 240 



Sida 161 



Sidalcea 161 



Siderolamprus 188 



Sigaretus 565 



Siliquaria 571, 585 



Silus 15 



Simiidae 508 



Solanum 6, 166 



Solaridae 566 



Solen 196, 422 



Solenidae 571 



Somateria 323 



Siniperca 16 



Siredon 66 



Sparoidae 251 



Spatula 322 




INDEX OF GENERA. 



625 



Sphxrella 577 



Sphaerium 28 



Sphaerodactylu3 35G 



Sphenaecus 316 



Spinacoidce 495 



Spiraea 11 



Thalassidroma 327 



Thalassoeca 337 



Thaleichthys 15 



Thamnodynastes 348 



Thamaocenchris 337 



Thecla 54, 55, 223 



Spirifera 405 j Thracia 



Spizula 572 | Thrasops 349 



Spondylida) 582 i Threpterius llo 



Sporobolus 88, 333 Thuiiosia 197, 211 



Hpreo 313 Thyrsites 125 



Squali 235, 483 | Thyrsitops . 125 



Squalus 235, 497 I Thysanodactylus 181 



Stalagmium 579 



Standella 573 



Stellio 340 



Sten03phenus 41 



Stenostoma 350, addenda 



Sterna 541, 325 



Sterninee 292, 535 



Sthenorhytis 5*35 



Strephobasis 273 



Strephona 287, 503 



Tilapia 139 



Tiliqua 190 



Tomoxia 43 



Tornatellidaj , 570 



Tornatina 571 



Totanus 321 



Tracliurops 261 



Trachurus 260 



Tradescaniia 9, 167 



Triads 282, 487 



Streptanthus 161 I Trichodontoidfe 332 



Stnarca 290, 580 



Strigilla 573 



Strix 313 



Stromateoides 126, 331 



Stromateus 126 



Sturionoidae 331 



Sula 325 



Surcula 285, 561 



Sycotypus 564 



Sylbeocyclus 23 



Trisetum 100, 337 



Tritoniidai 562 



Tritoninre 343 



Trioraphalia 197 



Trogosita 82 



Turbinidae 569 



Trachinidae 502 



Trachycardium 576 



Tracbynotinffi 232, 431 



Tretioscincus 184 and addenda 



Symphemia 321 Triacanthodes 235 



Syngnathoidae 282, 28c 



Tachynectes 71 



Talona 193, 197 



Talonella 213 



T^ncredia 21 



Taraguira 351 



Tarbophis 338 



Teius 351 



Teleuraspis 337 



Tellina 573 



TellinidEe 573 



Temnistia 13 



Terebra 565 



Terebraspira 286, 561 



Teredidfe 193, 453 



Teredinina 192 



Teredo 197, 455, 571 



Termitina 361 



Tetraodontoidfe 



Tetrops 40 



Triaenodonte? 485 



Trichidion 258 



Tricbopterus 118 



Tricuspis 89 



Triforis 567 



Triglopsis 13 



Trigonarca 289 



Trigoniidae 289, 579 



Trigoaostoma 567 



Tringa 322 



Tringoides 322 



Tritia 286, 562 



Trochidae 288 



Trocbita 570 



Trophon 560 



Tropidodipsiis 343 



Tropidolsemus 337 



Trypanostoma 169-175, 272 



Tupinambis 351 



Turhonilla 566 



Turris 284 



Teuthydoidae 242 : Turritella 567, 584 



Thalassens 536 | Turtnr 320, 321 



48 




62G 



INDEX OF GENERA 



Typhis 560 



Tyria 338 



Ulmus 11 



Umbrina 17, 257 



Ungulinidse 577 



Unio 168, 176 



Uniola 09, 337 



Unionidae 1G8 



Upeneus 25G 



TJperotis 455, 474 



Uralepis 93, 333 



Uraptera 282 



Uria 323 



Uroechis 339 



Uropsetta 330 



Valvata 



Veneridae 574, 585 



Venilia 27 



Venus 574 



Verbesina 164 



Verilus 236, 242 



Vermetidae 568 



Vermetus 568 



Verticordia 289, 579 



VespertiUonide 24G 



Vilfa 88,333 



Vipera 337 



Virginia., 249 



Vitis 162 



Vivipara 21. 451, 567 



Vola .' ' 582 



Voluta 563 



VoUutella 563 



Volutidae 563 



Volutifusus 56:^ 



Volvulata 570 



Vomeriinae 431 



Xema 293, 311 



Xemea; 293 



Xenodon 75, 348 



Xirichtbyse 143 



Xirichlbyinae 142 



Xiricbthys 143 



Xj'Iopliaga 19.H 



Xylotrya 455. 475 



Yoldia 5Sl 



Yucca 8, 1G7 



Zantboxvlum 162 



Zeinae...' 12C 



Zenopsis 126 



Zeus 126 



Zirphaea 192, 194,210 



Zizyphinus 569 



Zooloca 189 



Zosterops 31 G 




GENERAL INDEX. 



Abbott, C. C, on the Leucosomi iahab- 

 itiug the basin of the Delaware, 1. 



Allen, Harrison, M. D., descriptions of 

 two new species of Vespertilionidaj, 



160, 246. 



Baird, Prof., communication relative to 

 the indurated black spots found on 

 the Silver Maple, 507. 



Buckley, S. B., notes on some American 

 Ash Trees (Fraxiaus), with descrip- 

 tions of new species, 1, 2; descrip- 

 tion of new plants from Texas, 2, 5, 

 88 ; on Quercus lieterophjlla, Mich., 

 20, 100. 



. Gassin, J., remarks on a flock of Crows 

 seen Jan. 12th, 2. 



Catalogue of Birds collected by the U. 

 S. North Pacific Surveying and Ex- 

 ploring Expedition, with notes and 

 descriptions of new species, 312 ; 

 remarks on the Snowy Owl, 520. 



Conrad, T. A., descriptions of new gen- 

 era, subgenera and species of Ter- 

 tiary and Recent Shells, 274, 284: 

 catalogue of the Miocene Shells of 

 the Atlantic Slope of the United 

 States, 520, 559. 



Cope, E. D., remarks on Herpeton ten- 

 taculatum, Gerarda prevostiana and 

 Catostoma lineatum, I ; synopsis of 

 the species of Holcosus and Anie- 

 iva, with diagnoses of new West 

 lodian and South American Colubri- 

 dce, 20, 60; on some new and little 

 known American Anura, 102, 151 : 

 on Xeosorex albibarbis, 160, 188 : on 

 Lacerta echinata and Tiliqua dura, 

 160, 189 ; contributions to Neotropi- 

 cal Saurology, 160, 176; notes on 

 certain Reptiles of the New AVorld, 

 332, 337 ; remarks on a Cuban Bufo- 

 nid (Peltaphryne empusa),344; cat- 

 alogues of the Reptiles obtained 

 during the explorations of the Para- 

 guav, Vermejo and Uraguay Rivers, 

 by Capt. T. J. Page, U. S. N., and of 

 those procured by Lieut. N. Michler, 

 U. S. Top. Eng., commander of the 

 expedition conducting the survey of 

 the Atrato River, 345, 346. 



Correspondence of the Academv for 

 1863, 593. 



Coues, Elliott, synopsis of the Nort!. 

 American forms of the Colymbidae 

 and Podicipidte, 226; revision of the 

 Gulls of North America, based upon 

 specimens in the Museum of the 

 Smithsonian Inst., 249, 291 ; supple- 

 mentary note to a synopsis of North 

 American Colymbidas, &c., 345, 404 ; 

 review of the Terns of North Amer- 

 ica, 520, 535. 



Donations to Museum, 1862, 600. 



Donations to Library, 603. 



Edwards, Wm. H., description of cer- 

 tain species of Diuroal Lepidoptera 

 found within the limits of the United 

 States and British America, No. 2, 

 54, 221. 



Election of Standing Committees for 

 1862, 19. 



Election of Officers for 1862, 596. 



Elections of Members and Correspond- 

 ents, 597. 



Elliott, D. G., remarks on the specie? 

 composing the genus Pediocaetes, 

 Baird, 345, 402. 



Fisher, Dr., remarks on a Meteor ob- 

 served at Budd's Ferry, Md,, Dec. 

 24th, 20. 



Gabb, W. M., description of a new spe- 

 cies of Cephalopod from the coast of 

 California, 483. 



Gill, notice of new species of Hemile- 

 pidotus, 2, 13; on the subfamily of 

 Argentinina;, 2, 14 ; notes on the 

 Sciajnoids of California, 2, 16 ; ap- 

 pendix to the synopsis of the sub- 

 family of Percinaj, 2, 15 ; synopsis 

 of the Cirrhitoids, 101, 102; on the 

 limits and arrangement of the Scom- 

 broids, 101, 124; descriptions of new 

 species of Alepidosauridie, 101, 127; 

 on a new species of Priacanthus, 101, 

 132; on the West African genus 

 Hemichromus, 102, 134 ; catalogue 

 of the Fishes of Lower California ia 

 the Smithsonian Institution, 102, 140, 

 242, 249; on a new genus of Fishes 

 allied to Aulorhyuchus, and on the 

 affinities of the family Aulorhynchoi- 

 da?, to which it belongs, 160, 233; 

 remarks on the relations of the gen- 

 era and other groups of Cuban Fishes, 

 160, 235; notice of a collection of 




028 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Fishes of California presented to the 

 Smithsonian Institution by Mr. S. 

 Hubbard, 274; synopsis of the spe- 

 cies of Lopliobranchiate Fishes ot 

 Western North America, 282 ; notes 

 on the family of Scombroids, 328 ; 

 notes on some genera of Fishes of 

 Western North America, 329 ; synop- 

 sis of the Carangoids of the Eastern 

 Coast of North America, 345,430; 

 description of a new generic type of 

 Mormyroids, 345, 443 ; on the syno- 

 nomy and systematic position of the 

 genus Etelis, 345, 445 ; on the limit? 

 and affinity of the family of Leptos- 

 copoids, 482, 501 ; on the classifica- 

 tion of the Squall of California, 483 



Gray, Asa, notes upon the " Description 

 of new Plants from Texas, by S. B. 

 Buckley," IGl, 332. 



(irifSth, R. E., resignation of, as Libra- 

 rian, 18. 



Grote, A. R., additions to the nomen- 

 dature of North American Lepidop- 

 tera, 50, 359. 



Haldeman, S. S., remarks on the Bald 

 Eagle, 2. 



Hayden, F. V., description of new Cre- 

 taceous Fossils from Nebraska Ter- 

 ritory, etc., by F. B. Meek and F. V 

 Hayden, M. D., 1, 21. 



Hayes, Dr. I. I., remarks on some frag- 

 ments of a supposed Meteorite, 520; 

 thanks of the Academy tendered to 

 520. 



Horn, G. H., monograph of the species 

 of Trogosita inhabiting the United 

 States, 20, 82. 



Index to Genera, 617. 



Kilvington, Mr., remarks on the culture 

 of some of Dr. Hayes' Arctic Plants. 

 482. 



Le Conte, Dr. J. L., synopsis of the 

 Mordellidae of the United States, 20, 

 43 ; notes on the species of Calosoma 

 inhabiting the United States, 20, 52 ; 

 note on the classification of Ceram- 

 bycidos, with descriptions of new 

 species, 20, 38; synopsis of the spe- 

 cies of Colymbetes inhabiting Amer- 

 ica north of Mexico, 506, 521 ; note on 

 the species of Brachinus inhabiting 

 the United States, 5oC, 523. 



Lee, Isaac, description of a new genus 

 (Trypanostoma) of the family Melan- 

 idae and of forty-five new species, 

 160, 169; description of ten new 

 species of Unionida?, 160, 168; de- 



scription of two new species of Ex- 

 otic Uniones and one Monocondjlcea, 

 160, 176 ; description of a new genus 

 (Goniobasis) of the family Melanidae 

 and eighty-two new species, 262 ; 

 descriptions of eleven new species of 

 Melanidse of the United States, 272. 



Leidy, Dr., remarks on certain Minerals 

 found in or near the city, 507. 



Lewis, James, M. D., remarks on some 

 species of Paludina, Aranicola, Val- 

 vata and Melania, 520, 586. 



\Ieehan, Thos., on the uniformity of 

 relative characters between allied 

 species of European and American 

 Trees, 2, 10. 



Meek, F. B., description of new Cre- 

 taceous Fossils from Nebraska Terri- 

 tory, etc. By F. B. Meek and F. V. 

 Hayden, 1, 21. 



Norris, Mr., remarks on Salmo loati- 

 nalis and Salmo trutta. 



Prime, Temple, Monogr.iph of the spe- 

 cies of Sphjerium of North and South 

 America, 20, 28. 



Report of the Recording Secretary, 595. 



Report of the Curators, 595. 



Rogers, Dr., remarks on the thawing of 

 snow in the streets by means of 

 salt, 2. 



Slack, Dr. J. H., remarks on the Gorilla 

 castaneiceps, 159 ; monograph of the 

 Prehensile-tailed Quadrumana, 482, 

 507. 



Stimpson, Wm., description of a new 

 Carditim from the Pleistocene of 

 Hudson's Bay, 58 ; on a Tropical 

 Isopod found near the shores of 

 Massachusetts, 101, 133. 



Tryon, G. W., Jr., on the Classification 

 and Synonymy of recent species of 

 Pholadidte, 160, 191 ; Monograph of 

 the Family Teredid;e, 345, 453 ; notes 

 on American Fresh-Water Shells, &c., 

 345,451 ; description of a new Genus 

 and Species of Pholadidfe, 345, 449. 



Warner, John A., remarks on the imi- 

 itation of the section of Eggs by 

 mathematical lines, 102 ; remarks on 

 Organic Morphology, 159 ; contribu- 

 tions to Organic Morphology: con- 

 taining the mathematical imitation of 

 the egg of Planorbis corneus and of 

 Epiornis, 525. 



Winchell, Alex., descriptions of Fossils 

 from the Marshall and Huron Group 

 of Michigan, 345, 405. 








iDll^L/ii^^ WU-.W . . unn «w i^f 1 



QH Academy of natural sciences 



1 of Philadelphia 

 A 2 Proceedings 



v.U 



Biologkikl 

 & Medical 

 5eri«U 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



STORAGE 





